<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Functional Status Section - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Section: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.5</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Section</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.5"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>
    <i>Functional Status</i> describes the patient's status of normal functioning at the time the Care Record
    was created. Functional statuses include information regarding the patient relative to:
</p>

    <ul><li>Ambulatory ability</li>
       <li>Mental status or competency</li>
        <li>Activities of Daily Living (ADLs), including bathing, dressing, feeding, grooming</li>
        <li>Home / living situation having an effect on the health status of the patient</li>
        <li>Ability to care for self</li>
        <li>Social activity, including issues with social cognition, participation with
        friends and acquaintances other than family members</li>
       <li>Occupation activity, including activities partly or directly related to working, housework or volunteering, family
        and home responsibilities or activities related to home and family</li>
      <li>Communication ability, including issues with speech, writing or cognition required for communication</li>
       <li> Perception, including sight, hearing, taste, skin sensation, kinesthetic sense, proprioception, or
        balance</li>
</ul>
<p>
    Any
    deviation from normal function that the patient displays and is recorded in the record should be included. Of
    particular interest are those limitations that would in any way interfere with self care or the medical therapeutic
    process. In addition, an improvement, any change in or noting that the patient has normal functioning status is also
    valid for inclusion.
</p>
<p>Functional Statuses can be expressed in 3 different forms. They can occur as a Problem, a Result or as text. Text can be employed if and only if the Functional Status is neither a Problem nor a Result. Functional Statuses expressed as Problems include relevant clinical conditions, diagnoses, symptoms and findings. Results are the interpretation or conclusion derived from a clinical assessment or test battery, such as the Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) scale or the Functional Status Index (FSI).
</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Section.html">CDA Section</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "47420-5" <i>Functional status assessment</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>title</tt></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains one or more Problem Act and/or Result Organizer (CONF-123)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getEntryTargets(ccd::ProblemAct)-&gt;size() &gt; 0
  or self.getEntryTargets(ccd::ResultOrganizer)-&gt;size() &gt; 0</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Section.html">CDA Section</xref></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "47420-5" <i>Functional status assessment</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>title</tt></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains one or more Problem Act and/or Result Organizer (CONF-123)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getEntryTargets(ccd::ProblemAct)-&gt;size() &gt; 0
  or self.getEntryTargets(ccd::ResultOrganizer)-&gt;size() &gt; 0</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.5" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Functional Status Section"/>
          <code code="47420-5" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Functional status assessment"/>
          <title>Functional status assessment</title>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
