<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Problem Act - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Act</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>A problem is a clinical statement that a clinician is particularly concerned about and wants to track. It has important patient management use cases (e.g. health records often present the problem list as a way of summarizing a patient's medical history).</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Act.html">CDA Act</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "ACT"</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN"</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@nullFlavor</tt> = "NA" <i>NA (not applicable)</i></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../EpisodeObservation.dita">Episode Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.41</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more entryRelationship</li>
<li><b>CONF-152: </b><b>MAY</b> satisfy: A problem act MAY reference a problem observation, alert observation (see section Alerts) or other clinical statement that is the subject of concern, by setting the value for "Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode" to be "SUBJ" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC.</li>
<li><b>CONF-153: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The target of a problem act with Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode="SUBJ" SHOULD be a problem observation (in the Problem section) or alert observation (in the Alert section), but MAY be some other clinical statement.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: In Problem Section, a Problem Act SHOULD contain a Problem Observation.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: In Alert Section, a ProblemAct SHOULD contain an Alert Observation.</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one Patient Awareness</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.hl7.rim.doc/classes/InfrastructureRoot.html">RIM Infrastructure Root</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.hl7.rim.doc/classes/Act.html">RIM Act</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalStatement.html">CDA Clinical Statement</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Act.html">CDA Act</xref></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "ACT"</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN"</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@nullFlavor</tt> = "NA" <i>NA (not applicable)</i></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../EpisodeObservation.dita">Episode Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.41</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more entryRelationship</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-152: </b><b>MAY</b> satisfy: A problem act MAY reference a problem observation, alert observation (see section Alerts) or other clinical statement that is the subject of concern, by setting the value for "Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode" to be "SUBJ" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-153: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The target of a problem act with Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode="SUBJ" SHOULD be a problem observation (in the Problem section) or alert observation (in the Alert section), but MAY be some other clinical statement.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: In Problem Section, a Problem Act SHOULD contain a Problem Observation.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: In Alert Section, a ProblemAct SHOULD contain an Alert Observation.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one Patient Awareness</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Problem Act"/>
              <id root="7aefbb4c-5f1a-4b0a-a0ff-e3259ca9c4f8"/>
              <code nullFlavor="NA"/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <entryRelationship>
                <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
                  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.41" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Episode Observation"/>
                  <code code="ASSERTION" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.4" codeSystemName="ActCode"/>
                  <statusCode code="completed"/>
                  <value xsi:type="CD"/>
                </observation>
              </entryRelationship>
            </act>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
