<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cdatemplateconcept" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title> CDA 101</title>
 <shortdesc>Clinical Documentation Architecture (CDA) supplies a framework for specifying the full
  semantics of a clinical document. CDA defines a clinical document as having the following six
  characteristics: <keyword>Persistence</keyword>
  <keyword>Stewardship </keyword>
  <keyword>Potential for authentication</keyword>
  <keyword>Context</keyword>
  <keyword>Wholeness</keyword>
  <keyword>Human readability</keyword>.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>Any type of clinical content can be included in the CDA. Some types of typical CDA documents
   include Discharge Summary, Imaging Report, Admission and Physical, Pathology Report, etc. CDA is
   being used world-wide. The most popular use is for inter-enterprise information exchange such as
   what is envisioned for the United States Regional Health Information Organizations (RHIO). Most
   users are currently in countries such as Finland, Greece and Germany where RHIO type exchange is
   well established. Future plans in the US include using CDA in the US RHIO(s) and in the US
   military Health System.</p>
  <p>In addition to use by the Regional Health Information Organizations, CDA is the basis of a
   variety of experimental work within academic medical centers and research institutions. Examples
   of this are the project on CDA note generation with knowledge management and controlled
   vocabulary at Columbia-Presbyterian in New York, the work on CDA for decision support at Queen
   Elizabeth II Hospital/Dalhousie University and the Single Source Proof of Concept at Duke
   Clinical Research Institute.</p>
  <p>CDA-compliant applications have been created by many vendors for document management, viewing
   and creation. Since CDA uses Extensible Markup Language (XML), it allows for a non-XML body
   (word, jpg) for simpler implementation. Therefore any web browser such as Microsoft Internet
   Explorer and Firefox can parse a CDA document and using XSL style sheet covert in to HTML for
   display. CDA can also be managed by an XML repository.</p>
  <p>Implementers have a variety of choices when it comes to document generation. Many
   dictation/transcription vendors have CDA as an output option. Many EHR vendors can produce CDA
   documents. E-Form applications have also been produced for use with CDA. One of the biggest
   existing barriers to CDA generation is when insufficient information is available at the source
   for conversion. This however has not been a problem thus far from voice-interface or keyboard
   entry applications.</p>
  <p>CDA introduces the concept of "incremental" semantic interoperability. This means that there is
   a range of complexity allowed within the specification and that users must set their own
   compliance. The minimum clinical data architecture required are small XML metadata fields
   including provider name, document type, document id, etc). </p>
  <p>The body must also be any commonly used Multipurpose Internet Mail Exchange (MIME) type such
   as a .doc, a .pdf or even a scanned image. The minimal standard metadata set and display
   characteristics mean that documents could be filed and categorized. They would also be searchable
   and could be retrieved along with more richly encoded documents. This would make them all easily
   readable at the point of care.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
