<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Alert Observation - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.18</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.18"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Observation.html">CDA Observation</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN"</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "completed"  (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus STATIC V3NE08)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>value</tt>, which <b>MAY</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.20.4 AlertTypeCode STATIC 20061017, where its data type is CE</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../AlertStatusObservation.dita">Alert Status Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.39</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [1..*] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="MFST" <i>MFST (is manifestation of)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref href="../ReactionObservation.dita">Reaction Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.54</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The absence of known allergies SHOULD be represented in an alert observation by valuing Observation / value with 160244002 "No known allergies" 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96 SNOMED CT STATIC.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: An alert observation contains one or more sources of information.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: An alert observation SHOULD contain at least one Observation / participant, representing the agent that is the cause of the allergy or adverse reaction. The value for participant / @typeCode in an agent participation SHALL be "CSM" "Consumable" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.90 ParticipationType STATIC.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one participant / participantRole / playingEntity. The value for participant / participantRole / playingEntity / @classCode in an agent participation SHALL be "MMAT" "Manufactured material" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.41 EntityClass STATIC. Contains exactly one participant / participantRole / playingEntity / code.</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The value for participant / participantRole / playingEntity / code in an agent participation SHOULD be selected from the RxNorm (2.16.840.1.113883.6.88) code system for medications, and from the CDC Vaccine Code (2.16.840.1.113883.6.59) code system for immunizations.</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.hl7.rim.doc/classes/InfrastructureRoot.html">RIM Infrastructure Root</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.hl7.rim.doc/classes/Act.html">RIM Act</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalStatement.html">CDA Clinical Statement</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Observation.html">CDA Observation</xref></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN"</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "completed"  (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus STATIC V3NE08)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>value</tt>, which <b>MAY</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.1.11.20.4 AlertTypeCode STATIC 20061017, where its data type is CE</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../AlertStatusObservation.dita">Alert Status Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.39</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [1..*] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="MFST" <i>MFST (is manifestation of)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref href="../ReactionObservation.dita">Reaction Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.54</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The absence of known allergies SHOULD be represented in an alert observation by valuing Observation / value with 160244002 "No known allergies" 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96 SNOMED CT STATIC.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: An alert observation contains one or more sources of information.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: An alert observation SHOULD contain at least one Observation / participant, representing the agent that is the cause of the allergy or adverse reaction. The value for participant / @typeCode in an agent participation SHALL be "CSM" "Consumable" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.90 ParticipationType STATIC.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one participant / participantRole / playingEntity. The value for participant / participantRole / playingEntity / @classCode in an agent participation SHALL be "MMAT" "Manufactured material" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.41 EntityClass STATIC. Contains exactly one participant / participantRole / playingEntity / code.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The value for participant / participantRole / playingEntity / code in an agent participation SHOULD be selected from the RxNorm (2.16.840.1.113883.6.88) code system for medications, and from the CDC Vaccine Code (2.16.840.1.113883.6.59) code system for immunizations.</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.18" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Alert Observation"/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <value xsi:type="CE"/>
              <entryRelationship>
                <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
                  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.57" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Status Observation"/>
                  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.39" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Alert Status Observation"/>
                  <code code="33999-4" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Status"/>
                  <statusCode code="completed"/>
                  <value xsi:type="CE"/>
                </observation>
              </entryRelationship>
              <entryRelationship>
                <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
                  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.54" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Reaction Observation"/>
                  <statusCode code="completed"/>
                </observation>
              </entryRelationship>
            </observation>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
