<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Progress Note - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.1</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>ClinicalDocument</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.1"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>A Progress Note documents a patient's clinical status during a hospitalization or outpatient visit.</p>
<p>Taber's  medical dictionary defines a Progress Note as "An ongoing record of a patient's illness and treatment. Physicians, nurses, consultants, and therapists record their notes concerning the progress or lack of progress made by the patient between the time of the previous note and the most recent note."</p>
<p>Mosby's  medical dictionary defines a Progress Note as "Notes made by a nurse, physician, social worker, physical therapist, and other health care professionals that describe the patient's condition and the treatment given or planned."</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li>Conforms to <xref href="../GeneralHeaderConstraints.dita">General Header Constraints</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.3</tt>)</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-3: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.8.1 <xref href="../../terminology/ProgressNoteDocumentTypeCode.dita">ProgressNoteDocumentTypeCode</xref> DYNAMIC</li>
<li>Contains [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../AssessmentAndPlanSectionProcNote.dita">Assessment And Plan Section Proc Note</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.14</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>Contains [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../AssessmentSectionProcNote.dita">Assessment Section Proc Note</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.13</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>Contains [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/PlanOfCareSection.html">CCD Plan Of Care Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.10</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-21: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/AlertsSection.html">CCD Alerts Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-22: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ChiefComplaintSectionProcNote.dita">Chief Complaint Section Proc Note</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.16</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-23: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/MedicationsSection.html">CCD Medications Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.8</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-24: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ObjectiveSection.dita">Objective Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.2.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-26: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../PhysicalExaminationSection.dita">Physical Examination Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.10</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-27: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemSection.html">CCD Problem Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.11</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-28: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ResultsSection.html">CCD Results Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.14</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-29: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../VitalSignsSection.dita">Vital Signs Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.4</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-30: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ReviewOfSystemsSectionIHE.dita">Review Of Systems Section IHE</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.3.18</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-31: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../SubjectiveSection.dita">Subjective Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.2.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-PN-45: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Either combined Assessment + Plan section is included, or separate Assessment section and Plan section included, but not both combined and separate sections.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PN-44: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: When Assessment section or Plan section is included, then both sections SHALL be included.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-4: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains a serviceEvent element.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-5: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The documentationOf/serviceEvent/code SHALL be 371532007 Progress Report 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96 SNOMED CT STATIC.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-6: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The serviceEvent/effectiveTime element SHOULD be present with effectiveTime/low element and SHALL include effectiveTime/high element if a width element is not present. The serviceEvent/effectiveTime element SHALLL be accurate to the day, and MAY be accurate to the second.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-7: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains componentOf element.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-8: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The encompassingEncounter has an 'id' element.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-9: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The encompassingEncounter has an effectiveTime element.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-10: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The encompassingEncounter has an effectiveTime/low element.</li>
<li><b>CONF-PRGN-11: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The encompassingEncounter element has an encompassingEncounter/location/healthCareFacility/id element.</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.hl7.rim.doc/classes/InfrastructureRoot.html">RIM Infrastructure Root</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.hl7.rim.doc/classes/Act.html">RIM Act</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalDocument.html">CDA Clinical Document</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref href="../GeneralHeaderConstraints.dita">General Header Constraints</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.3</tt>)</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-3: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.11.20.8.1 <xref href="../../terminology/ProgressNoteDocumentTypeCode.dita">ProgressNoteDocumentTypeCode</xref> DYNAMIC</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>confidentialityCode</tt></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-23: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>id</tt></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-24: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>languageCode</tt></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>realmCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "US" </li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-22: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>title</tt></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>typeId</tt></li>
<li>[CDT] Contains [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../AssessmentAndPlanSectionProcNote.dita">Assessment And Plan Section Proc Note</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.14</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] Contains [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../AssessmentSectionProcNote.dita">Assessment Section Proc Note</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.13</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] Contains [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/PlanOfCareSection.html">CCD Plan Of Care Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.10</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-21: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/AlertsSection.html">CCD Alerts Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-22: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ChiefComplaintSectionProcNote.dita">Chief Complaint Section Proc Note</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.16</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-23: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/MedicationsSection.html">CCD Medications Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.8</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-24: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ObjectiveSection.dita">Objective Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.2.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-26: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../PhysicalExaminationSection.dita">Physical Examination Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.10</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-27: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemSection.html">CCD Problem Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.11</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-28: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ResultsSection.html">CCD Results Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.14</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-29: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../VitalSignsSection.dita">Vital Signs Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.4</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-30: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ReviewOfSystemsSectionIHE.dita">Review Of Systems Section IHE</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.3.18</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-31: </b><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>component</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../SubjectiveSection.dita">Subjective Section</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.2.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-16: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The extension attribute of the typeId element SHALL be POCD_HD000040.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-17: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The ClinicalDocument/id element SHALL be present. The ClinicalDocument/id/@root attribute SHALL be a syntactically correct UUID or OID.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-18: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: UUIDs SHALL be represented in the form XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX, where each X is a character from the set [A-Fa-f0-9].</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-19: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: OIDs SHALL be represented in dotted decimal notation, where each decimal number is either 0, or starts with a nonzero digit. More formally, an OID SHALL be in the form ([0-2])(.([1-9][0-9]*|0))+.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-20: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: OIDs SHALL be no more than 64 characters in length.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-25: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: languageCode SHALL be in the form nn, or nn-CC.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-26: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The nn portion of languageCode SHALL be a legal ISO-639-1 language code in lowercase.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-27: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The CC portion languageCode, if present, SHALL be an ISO-3166 country code in uppercase.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-28: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Both setId and versionNumber SHALL be present or both SHALL be absent.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-29: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The @extension and/or @root of setId and id SHALL be different when both are present.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-HP-30: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: A copyTime element SHALL NOT be present.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PN-45: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Either combined Assessment + Plan section is included, or separate Assessment section and Plan section included, but not both combined and separate sections.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PN-44: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: When Assessment section or Plan section is included, then both sections SHALL be included.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-4: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains a serviceEvent element.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-5: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The documentationOf/serviceEvent/code SHALL be 371532007 Progress Report 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96 SNOMED CT STATIC.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-6: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The serviceEvent/effectiveTime element SHOULD be present with effectiveTime/low element and SHALL include effectiveTime/high element if a width element is not present. The serviceEvent/effectiveTime element SHALLL be accurate to the day, and MAY be accurate to the second.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-7: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains componentOf element.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-8: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The encompassingEncounter has an 'id' element.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-9: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The encompassingEncounter has an effectiveTime element.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-10: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The encompassingEncounter has an effectiveTime/low element.</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>CONF-PRGN-11: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The encompassingEncounter element has an encompassingEncounter/location/healthCareFacility/id element.</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <realmCode code="US"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.3" assigningAuthorityName="CDT General Header Constraints"/>
  <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.1" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Progress Note"/>
  <id root="4eec7e83-a257-48d4-8c2b-2254621ace35"/>
  <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC"/>
  <title/>
  <effectiveTime/>
  <confidentialityCode/>
  <languageCode/>
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.14" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Assessment And Plan Section Proc Note"/>
          <code code="51847-2" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="ASSESSMENT AND PLAN"/>
          <title>ASSESSMENT AND PLAN</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.13" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Assessment Section Proc Note"/>
          <code code="51848-0" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="ASSESSMENT"/>
          <title>ASSESSMENT</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.10" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Plan Of Care Section"/>
          <code code="18776-5" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Treatment plan"/>
          <title>Treatment plan</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.2" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Alerts Section"/>
          <code code="48765-2" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Allergies, adverse reactions, alerts"/>
          <title>Allergies, adverse reactions, alerts</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.18.2.16" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Chief Complaint Section Proc Note"/>
          <code code="10154-3" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="CHIEF COMPLAINT"/>
          <title>CHIEF COMPLAINT</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.8" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Medications Section"/>
          <code code="10160-0" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="History of medication use"/>
          <title>History of medication use</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.2.1" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Objective Section"/>
          <code code="OBJEC-X" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="OBJECTIVE DATA"/>
          <title>OBJECTIVE DATA</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.10" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Physical Examination Section"/>
          <code code="29545-1" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="PHYSICAL FINDINGS"/>
          <title>PHYSICAL FINDINGS</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.11" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Problem Section"/>
          <code code="11450-4" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Problem list"/>
          <title>Problem list</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.14" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Results Section"/>
          <code code="30954-2" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Relevant diagnostic tests and/or laboratory data"/>
          <title>Relevant diagnostic tests and/or laboratory data</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.4" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Vital Signs Section"/>
          <code code="8716-3" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="VITAL SIGNS"/>
          <title>VITAL SIGNS</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.3.18" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Review Of Systems Section"/>
          <code code="10187-3" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="REVIEW OF SYSTEMS"/>
          <title>REVIEW OF SYSTEMS</title>
        </section>
      </component>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.21.2.2" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Subjective Section"/>
          <code code="SUBJ-X" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="SUBJECTIVE DATA"/>
          <title>SUBJECTIVE DATA</title>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
