<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE learningContent PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Learning Content//EN" "learningContent.dtd">
<learningContent id="content_t4y_2l3_z3" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Understanding the Example Model</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <learningContentbody>
        <lcIntro>
            <ol>
                <li>Every CDA template is represented as a UML class. <ol>
                        <li>In a CDA implementation guide, every class must be derived from a
                            subclass of the CDA base model</li>
                        <li>The UML model containing all the different classes is the CDA base model </li>
                        <li>There is a class for every complex type in the CDA schema.</li>
                        <li>Every implementation guide needs to be specialized with a specific
                            clinical document.</li>
                        <li>The purpose of the example UML is to illustrate the basic structures
                            that most every CDA implementation guide has. </li>
                    </ol>
                </li>
                <li>Notice that there are subclasses of classes <ol>
                        <li>Every implementation guide takes the CDA model and specializes it for a
                            particular type of clinical document.</li>
                        <li>Template classes are often times reused </li>
                        <li>A document also contains sections such as history of present illness,
                            past medical history, review of systems, etc. Each of these sections
                            might be where the physician would include the corresponding
                            information.</li>
                        <li>These domains are named ending with Section. For example: A History
                            &amp; Physical contains at least one section which could be Past Medical
                            History section.</li>
                        <li>This will be revisited again when we discuss re-using existing
                            templates.</li>
                        <li>Keep in mind that CDA is the least restrictive model.</li>
                        <li>Notice the "Open" headed arrow - denotes a "subclass of" and it denotes
                            which existing template it derives from.</li>
                        <li>Every implementation guide has at least one template class derive from a
                            Clinical Document.</li>
                        <li>Notice the "Solid" headed arrow denotes the UML association from one
                            class to another -i.e. the relationship between templates - contains -
                            representing a constraints.</li>
                    </ol>
                </li>
                
                    <li>The multiplicity domain in the editor can describe the requirements for each
                        document and the conformance rules <ol>

                            <li>This domain provides information about how many sections the
                                document must contain</li>
                            <li>The severity of the constraint is described with conformance rules
                                in one of the following ways: SHALL (required) contain, SHOULD
                                (suggested) contain or MAY (allowed) contain a specific section</li>
                            <li>A problem is constrained for a particular purpose to make it easier
                                to solve</li>
                            <li>The number in the multiplicity domain denotes the minimum and
                                maximum number of observations.</li>
                            <li>In the case of 1.*, this denotes that there must be at least one but
                                that it can be multiple.</li>
                        </ol></li>
                
            </ol>
        </lcIntro>
    </learningContentbody>
</learningContent>
