<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Overview</title>
	<body>
		<p>This implementation guide is generated from UML models developed in
			the Open Health Tools (OHT) Model-Driven Health Tools (MDHT) project.
			The IHE Patient Care Coordination (PCC) specification has been formalized into computational
			models expressed in UML. These models are used by automated tooling
			to generate this publication, plus validation tools and Java libraries
			for implementers.</p>
		<p>Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) is an initiative
			designed to stimulate the integration of the information systems that
			support modern healthcare institutions. Its fundamental objective is
			to ensure that in the care of patients all required information for
			medical decisions is both correct and available to healthcare
			professionals. The IHE initiative is both a process and a forum for
			encouraging integration efforts. It defines a technical framework for
			the implementation of established messaging standards to achieve
			specific clinical goals. It includes a rigorous testing process for
			the implementation of this framework. And it organizes educational
			sessions and exhibits at major meetings of medical professionals to
			demonstrate the benefits of this framework and encourage its adoption
			by industry and users.</p>
		<p>The approach employed in the IHE initiative is not to define new
			integration standards, but rather to support the use of existing
			standards, HL7, DICOM, IETF, and others, as appropriate in their
			respective domains in an integrated manner, defining configuration
			choices when necessary. When clarifications or extensions to existing
			standards are necessary, IHE refers recommendations to the relevant
			standards bodies.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
