<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Allergy Intolerance Concern - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Act: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.3</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Act</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.3"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>This entry is a specialization of the Concern Entry, wherein the subject of the concern is focused on an allergy or intolerance.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../ConcernEntry.dita">Concern Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.1</tt>)</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalStatement.html">CDA Clinical Statement</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Act.html">CDA Act</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemAct.html">CCD Problem Act</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../ConcernEntry.dita">Concern Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.1</tt>)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "ACT" (CONF-146)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-147)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@nullFlavor</tt> = "NA" <i>NA (not applicable)</i> (CONF-149)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt> (CONF-148)</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt><ul><li>The effectiveTime element records the starting and ending times during which the concern was active.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [1..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/EpisodeObservation.html">CCD Episode Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.41</tt>) (CONF-168)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] Contains [0..*] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemObservation.html">CCD Problem Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.28</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet <xref href="../../terminology/ConcernEntryStatus.dita">ConcernEntryStatus</xref> STATIC</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more entryRelationship (CONF-151)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.entryRelationship-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: A problem act MAY reference a problem observation, alert observation (see section Alerts) or other clinical statement that is the subject of concern, by setting the value for "Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode" to be "SUBJ" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC. (CONF-152)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The target of a problem act with Act / entryRelationship / @typeCode="SUBJ" SHOULD be a problem observation (in the Problem section) or alert observation (in the Alert section), but MAY be some other clinical statement. (CONF-153)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getEntryRelationshipTargets(vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::SUBJ, cda::ClinicalStatement)-&gt;forAll(target : cda::ClinicalStatement | not target.oclIsUndefined() and 
  (target.oclIsKindOf(ccd::ProblemObservation) or target.oclIsKindOf(ccd::AlertObservation)))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: In Problem Section, a Problem Act SHOULD contain one or more Problem Observations. (CONF-140)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getSection().oclIsKindOf(ccd::ProblemSection) implies self.getObservations()
   -&gt;exists(obs : cda::Observation | obs.oclIsKindOf(ccd::ProblemObservation))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: In Alert Section, a ProblemAct SHOULD contain one or more Alert Observations. (CONF-256)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getSection().oclIsKindOf(ccd::AlertsSection) implies self.getObservations()
   -&gt;exists(obs : cda::Observation | obs.oclIsKindOf(ccd::AlertObservation))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one Patient Awareness (CONF-179)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.participant-&gt;one(partic : cda::Participant2 | partic.oclIsKindOf(ccd::PatientAwareness))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The effectiveTime 'low' element shall be present. The 'high' element shall be present for concerns in the completed or aborted state, and shall not be present otherwise.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.effectiveTime.low.oclIsUndefined()
   and ((self.statusCode.code = 'completed' or self.statusCode.code = 'aborted') implies not self.effectiveTime.high.oclIsUndefined())
   and ((self.statusCode.code &lt;&gt; 'completed' and self.statusCode.code &lt;&gt; 'aborted') implies self.effectiveTime.high.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Each concern is about one or more related problems or allergies. This entry shall contain one or more problem or allergy entries that conform to the specification in section Problem Entry or Allergies and Intolerances. This is how a series of related observations can be grouped as a single concern. This SHALL be represented using entryRelationship with typeCode = 'SUBJ'.</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: Each concern may have 0 or more related references. These may be used to represent related statements such related visits. This may be any valid CDA clinical statement, and SHOULD be an IHE entry template. This SHALL be represented using entryRelationship with typeCode = 'REFR'.</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Problem Act"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.1" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Concern Entry"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5.3" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Allergy Intolerance Concern"/>
              <id root="c1dff209-0fae-4fee-8b56-4df50dbfa893"/>
              <code nullFlavor="NA"/>
              <statusCode/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
            </act>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
