<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Scanned Document - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[ClinicalDocument: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>ClinicalDocument</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>A variety of legacy paper, film, electronic and scanner outputted formats are used to store and exchange clinical documents. These formats are not designed for healthcare documentation, and furthermore, do not have a uniform mechanism to store healthcare metadata associated with the documents, including patient identifiers, demographics, encounter, order or service information. The association of structured, healthcare metadata with this kind of document is important to maintain the integrity of the patient health record as managed by the source system. It is necessary to provide a mechanism that allows such source metadata to be stored with the document.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalDocument.html">CDA Clinical Document</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><ul><li>Entered by operator or appropriately fixed for scanned content.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>confidentialityCode</tt><ul><li>Assigned by the operator in accordance with the scanning facility policy. The notion or level of confidentiality in the header may not be the same as that in the Affinity Domain, but in certain cases could be used to derive a confidentiality value among those specified by the Affinity Domain. Attributes @code and @codeSystem shall be present.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt><ul><li>Denotes the time at which the original content was scanned. At a minimum, the time shall be precise to the day and shall include the time zone offset from GMT.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>id</tt><ul><li>The root attribute shall contain the oid for the document, in which case the extension attribute shall be empty, or an oid that scopes the set of possible unique values for the extension attribute, in which case the extension shall be populated with a globally unique identifier within the scope of the root oid.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>languageCode</tt><ul><li>Denotes the language used in the character data of the wrapper CDA header. If the scanned content, when rendered, is in a language different than that of the header, the language context of the CDA will be overwritten at the body level (see ITI TF-3: 5.2.3.9 ClinicalDocument/component/nonXMLBody for an example). Attribute @code shall be present.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>title</tt><ul><li>Entered by operator, or possibly can be taken from the scanned content.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>typeId</tt></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..*] <tt>scanOriginalAuthor</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ScanOriginalAuthor.dita">Scan Original Author</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>scanningDevice</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ScanningDevice.dita">Scanning Device</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>scanDataEnterer</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ScanDataEnterer.dita">Scan Data Enterer</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.3</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>legalAuthenticator</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/LegalAuthenticator.html">CDA Legal Authenticator</xref></li></ol><ul><li>Context is left up to the scanning facility to refine in accordance with local policies.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>documentationOf</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/DocumentationOf.html">CDA Documentation Of</xref></li></ol><ul><li>Used to encode the date/time range of the original content. If the original content is representative of a single point in time then the endpoints of the date/time range shall be the same. Information regarding this date/time range shall be included, if it is known. In many cases this will have to be supplied by the operator.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The typeId root is 2.16.840.1.113883.1.3 and extension is POCD_HD000040.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.typeId.root = '2.16.840.1.113883.1.3' and self.typeId.extension = 'POCD_HD000040'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one recordTarget.<ul><li>Contains identifying information about the patient concerned in the original content. In many cases this will have to be supplied by the operator.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;size() = 1</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more author / assignedAuthor / assignedPerson and/or author / assignedAuthor / representedOrganization<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;exists(author : cda::Author | not author.assignedAuthor.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined() 
   or not author.assignedAuthor.representedOrganization.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: recordTarget/patientRole/id element includes both the root and the extension attributes.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;forAll(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   and target.patientRole.id-&gt;forAll(roleId : datatypes::II | not roleId.root.oclIsUndefined()
   and not roleId.extension.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole/addr element includes at least the country subelement.<ul><li>The addr element has an unbounded upper limit on occurrences. It can, and should, be replicated to include additional addresses for a patient, each minimally specified by the country sub element.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   and target.patientRole.addr-&gt;exists(address : datatypes::AD | address.country-&gt;exists(c : datatypes::ADXP |
   not c.oclIsUndefined() and c.getText().size() &gt; 0)))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole/patient/name element has at least one given subelement and one family subelement.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.patient.oclIsUndefined()
   and target.patientRole.patient.name-&gt;exists(name: datatypes::PN |
      not name.given-&gt;isEmpty() and not name.family-&gt;isEmpty()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The recordTarget/patientRole/patient/ administrativeGenderCode element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;one(target : cda::RecordTarget |
   not target.patientRole.patient.administrativeGenderCode.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The recordTarget/patientRole/patient/ birthTime element is present with precision to the year.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;one(target : cda::RecordTarget |
   not target.patientRole.patient.birthTime.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains author of type ScanOriginalAuthor to represent original author of this scanned document.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;exists(author : cda::Author | not author.oclIsUndefined() and author.oclIsKindOf(ihe::ScanOriginalAuthor))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains author element of type ScanningDevice to represent the scanning device and software used to produce the scanned content.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;exists(author : cda::Author | not author.oclIsUndefined() and author.oclIsKindOf(ihe::ScanningDevice))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains ScanDataEnterer element to represent the scanner operator who produced the scanned content.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.dataEnterer.oclIsUndefined() and self.dataEnterer.oclIsKindOf(ihe::ScanDataEnterer)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: custodian/assignedCustodian/representedCustodianOrganization/name is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.custodian.assignedCustodian.representedCustodianOrganization.name.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: custodian/assignedCustodian/representedCustodianOrganization/addr is present and includes at least the country sub element.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.custodian.assignedCustodian.representedCustodianOrganization.addr.oclIsUndefined()
   and self.custodian.assignedCustodian.representedCustodianOrganization.addr.country-&gt;exists(c : datatypes::ADXP |
      not c.oclIsUndefined() and c.getText().size() &gt; 0)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The legalAuthenticator/assignedEntity/id element if known shall include both the root and the extension attributes.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.legalAuthenticator.assignedEntity.id-&gt;size() &gt; 0 implies (
   self.legalAuthenticator.assignedEntity.id-&gt;forAll(ident : datatypes::II |
      not ident.root.oclIsUndefined() and not ident.extension.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody is present.<ul><li>Used to wrap the scanned content. The nonXMLBody element is guaranteed to be unique; thus the x-path to recover the scanned content is essentially fixed.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.component.nonXMLBody.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the human-readable language of the scanned content is different than that of the wrapper (specified in ClinicalDocument/languageCode), then ClinicalDocument/component/nonXMLBody/languageCode shall be present. Attribute code@code shall be present. Attribute code@codeSystem shall be IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) RFC 3066 in accordance with the HL7 CDA R2 documentation.</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text element is present and encoded using xs:base64Binary encoding. Its #CDATA will contain the scanned content.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.component.nonXMLBody.text.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text@mediaType is "application/pdf" for PDF, or "text/plain" for plaintext.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.component.nonXMLBody.text.mediaType = 'application/pdf' or self.component.nonXMLBody.text.mediaType = 'text/plain'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text@representation is B64.<ul><li>The @representation for both PDF and plaintext scanned content will be "B64", because this profile requires the base-64 encoding of both formats.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.component.nonXMLBody.text.representation = datatypes::BinaryDataEncoding::B64</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalDocument.html">CDA Clinical Document</xref></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>id</tt><ul><li>The root attribute shall contain the oid for the document, in which case the extension attribute shall be empty, or an oid that scopes the set of possible unique values for the extension attribute, in which case the extension shall be populated with a globally unique identifier within the scope of the root oid.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><ul><li>Entered by operator or appropriately fixed for scanned content.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt><ul><li>Denotes the time at which the original content was scanned. At a minimum, the time shall be precise to the day and shall include the time zone offset from GMT.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>confidentialityCode</tt><ul><li>Assigned by the operator in accordance with the scanning facility policy. The notion or level of confidentiality in the header may not be the same as that in the Affinity Domain, but in certain cases could be used to derive a confidentiality value among those specified by the Affinity Domain. Attributes @code and @codeSystem shall be present.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..*] <tt>author</tt>, where its type is <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Author.html">CDA Author</xref></li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>custodian</tt>, where its type is <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Custodian.html">CDA Custodian</xref></li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>component</tt>, where its type is <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Component2.html">CDA Component2</xref></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>languageCode</tt><ul><li>Denotes the language used in the character data of the wrapper CDA header. If the scanned content, when rendered, is in a language different than that of the header, the language context of the CDA will be overwritten at the body level (see ITI TF-3: 5.2.3.9 ClinicalDocument/component/nonXMLBody for an example). Attribute @code shall be present.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>title</tt><ul><li>Entered by operator, or possibly can be taken from the scanned content.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>typeId</tt></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..*] <tt>scanOriginalAuthor</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ScanOriginalAuthor.dita">Scan Original Author</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>scanningDevice</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ScanningDevice.dita">Scanning Device</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>scanDataEnterer</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../ScanDataEnterer.dita">Scan Data Enterer</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.3</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>legalAuthenticator</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/LegalAuthenticator.html">CDA Legal Authenticator</xref></li></ol><ul><li>Context is left up to the scanning facility to refine in accordance with local policies.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>documentationOf</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/DocumentationOf.html">CDA Documentation Of</xref></li></ol><ul><li>Used to encode the date/time range of the original content. If the original content is representative of a single point in time then the endpoints of the date/time range shall be the same. Information regarding this date/time range shall be included, if it is known. In many cases this will have to be supplied by the operator.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The typeId root is 2.16.840.1.113883.1.3 and extension is POCD_HD000040.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.typeId.root = '2.16.840.1.113883.1.3' and self.typeId.extension = 'POCD_HD000040'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one recordTarget.<ul><li>Contains identifying information about the patient concerned in the original content. In many cases this will have to be supplied by the operator.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;size() = 1</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more author / assignedAuthor / assignedPerson and/or author / assignedAuthor / representedOrganization<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;exists(author : cda::Author | not author.assignedAuthor.assignedPerson.oclIsUndefined() 
   or not author.assignedAuthor.representedOrganization.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: recordTarget/patientRole/id element includes both the root and the extension attributes.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;forAll(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   and target.patientRole.id-&gt;forAll(roleId : datatypes::II | not roleId.root.oclIsUndefined()
   and not roleId.extension.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole/addr element includes at least the country subelement.<ul><li>The addr element has an unbounded upper limit on occurrences. It can, and should, be replicated to include additional addresses for a patient, each minimally specified by the country sub element.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.oclIsUndefined()
   and target.patientRole.addr-&gt;exists(address : datatypes::AD | address.country-&gt;exists(c : datatypes::ADXP |
   not c.oclIsUndefined() and c.getText().size() &gt; 0)))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: At least one recordTarget/patientRole/patient/name element has at least one given subelement and one family subelement.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;exists(target : cda::RecordTarget | not target.patientRole.patient.oclIsUndefined()
   and target.patientRole.patient.name-&gt;exists(name: datatypes::PN |
      not name.given-&gt;isEmpty() and not name.family-&gt;isEmpty()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The recordTarget/patientRole/patient/ administrativeGenderCode element is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;one(target : cda::RecordTarget |
   not target.patientRole.patient.administrativeGenderCode.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The recordTarget/patientRole/patient/ birthTime element is present with precision to the year.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.recordTarget-&gt;one(target : cda::RecordTarget |
   not target.patientRole.patient.birthTime.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains author of type ScanOriginalAuthor to represent original author of this scanned document.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;exists(author : cda::Author | not author.oclIsUndefined() and author.oclIsKindOf(ihe::ScanOriginalAuthor))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains author element of type ScanningDevice to represent the scanning device and software used to produce the scanned content.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.author-&gt;exists(author : cda::Author | not author.oclIsUndefined() and author.oclIsKindOf(ihe::ScanningDevice))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains ScanDataEnterer element to represent the scanner operator who produced the scanned content.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.dataEnterer.oclIsUndefined() and self.dataEnterer.oclIsKindOf(ihe::ScanDataEnterer)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: custodian/assignedCustodian/representedCustodianOrganization/name is present.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.custodian.assignedCustodian.representedCustodianOrganization.name.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: custodian/assignedCustodian/representedCustodianOrganization/addr is present and includes at least the country sub element.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.custodian.assignedCustodian.representedCustodianOrganization.addr.oclIsUndefined()
   and self.custodian.assignedCustodian.representedCustodianOrganization.addr.country-&gt;exists(c : datatypes::ADXP |
      not c.oclIsUndefined() and c.getText().size() &gt; 0)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The legalAuthenticator/assignedEntity/id element if known shall include both the root and the extension attributes.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.legalAuthenticator.assignedEntity.id-&gt;size() &gt; 0 implies (
   self.legalAuthenticator.assignedEntity.id-&gt;forAll(ident : datatypes::II |
      not ident.root.oclIsUndefined() and not ident.extension.oclIsUndefined()))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody is present.<ul><li>Used to wrap the scanned content. The nonXMLBody element is guaranteed to be unique; thus the x-path to recover the scanned content is essentially fixed.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.component.nonXMLBody.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If the human-readable language of the scanned content is different than that of the wrapper (specified in ClinicalDocument/languageCode), then ClinicalDocument/component/nonXMLBody/languageCode shall be present. Attribute code@code shall be present. Attribute code@codeSystem shall be IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) RFC 3066 in accordance with the HL7 CDA R2 documentation.</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text element is present and encoded using xs:base64Binary encoding. Its #CDATA will contain the scanned content.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.component.nonXMLBody.text.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text@mediaType is "application/pdf" for PDF, or "text/plain" for plaintext.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.component.nonXMLBody.text.mediaType = 'application/pdf' or self.component.nonXMLBody.text.mediaType = 'text/plain'</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The component/nonXMLBody/text@representation is B64.<ul><li>The @representation for both PDF and plaintext scanned content will be "B64", because this profile requires the base-64 encoding of both formats.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.component.nonXMLBody.text.representation = datatypes::BinaryDataEncoding::B64</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Scanned Document"/>
  <id root="3bc1bec8-d856-4d97-aa48-a453454cbcb4"/>
  <code/>
  <title/>
  <effectiveTime/>
  <confidentialityCode/>
  <languageCode/>
  <author>
    <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.1" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Scan Original Author"/>
    <time/>
  </author>
  <author>
    <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.2" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Scanning Device"/>
    <time/>
  </author>
  <dataEnterer>
    <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.3" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Scan Data Enterer"/>
    <time/>
  </dataEnterer>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
