<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Medications Section - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Section: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.8</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Section</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.8"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>
    The Medications section defines a patient's current medications and pertinent medication
    history. At a minimum, the currently active medications should be listed, with an entire medication history as an
    option, particularly when the summary document is used for comprehensive data export. The section may also include a
    patient's prescription history, and enables the determination of the source of a medication list (e.g. from a pharmacy
    system vs. from the patient).
</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Section.html">CDA Section</xref></li>
<li><b>CONF-300, CONF-301: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "10160-0" <i>History of medication use</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC 2.26)</li>
<li><b>CONF-302: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>title</tt></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [0..1] <tt>text</tt></li>
<li>Contains [0..*] <tt>entry</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../MedicationActivity.dita">Medication Activity</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.24</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>Contains [0..*] <tt>entry</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../SupplyActivity.dita">Supply Activity</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.34</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li><b>CONF-299: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The absence of known medications is explicitly asserted.</li>
<li><b>CONF-303: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Valued with a case-insensitive language-insensitive string containing 'medication'.</li>
<li><b>CONF-298: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Clinical statements include one or more Medication Activity and/or one or more Supply Activity.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getSubstanceAdministrations()-&gt;exists(activity : cda::SubstanceAdministration | activity.oclIsKindOf(ccd::MedicationActivity))
   or self.getSupplies()-&gt;exists(activity : cda::Supply | activity.oclIsKindOf(ccd::SupplyActivity))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Section.html">CDA Section</xref></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-300, CONF-301: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "10160-0" <i>History of medication use</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC 2.26)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-302: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>title</tt></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [0..1] <tt>text</tt></li>
<li>[CCD] Contains [0..*] <tt>entry</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../MedicationActivity.dita">Medication Activity</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.24</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] Contains [0..*] <tt>entry</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../SupplyActivity.dita">Supply Activity</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.34</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-299: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The absence of known medications is explicitly asserted.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-303: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Valued with a case-insensitive language-insensitive string containing 'medication'.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-298: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Clinical statements include one or more Medication Activity and/or one or more Supply Activity.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getSubstanceAdministrations()-&gt;exists(activity : cda::SubstanceAdministration | activity.oclIsKindOf(ccd::MedicationActivity))
   or self.getSupplies()-&gt;exists(activity : cda::Supply | activity.oclIsKindOf(ccd::SupplyActivity))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.8" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Medications Section"/>
          <code code="10160-0" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="History of medication use"/>
          <title>History of medication use</title>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
