<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Overview</title>
	<body>
		<p>This implementation guide is generated from UML models developed in
			the Open Health Tools (OHT) Model-Driven Health Tools (MDHT) project.
			The HL7 CCD specification has been formalized into computational
			models expressed in UML. These models are used by automated tooling
			to generate this publication, plus validation tools and Java libraries
			for implementers.</p>
		<p>The purpose of this document is to describe constraints on the HL7
			Clinical Document Architecture, Release 2 (CDA) specification in
			accordance with requirements set forward in ASTM E2369-05 Standard
			Specification for Continuity of Care Record (CCR).</p>
		<p>The CCR is a core data set of the most relevant administrative,
			demographic, and clinical information facts about a patient's
			healthcare, covering one or more healthcare encounters. It provides a
			means for one healthcare practitioner, system, or setting to
			aggregate all of the pertinent data about a patient and forward it to
			another practitioner, system, or setting to support the continuity of
			care. The primary use case for the CCR is to provide a snapshot in
			time containing the pertinent clinical, demographic, and
			administrative data for a specific patient.</p>
		<p>The HL7 Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) is a document markup
			standard that specifies the structure and semantics of clinical
			documents for the purpose of exchange. From its inception, CDA has
			supported the ability to represent professional society
			recommendations, national clinical practice guidelines, and
			standardized data sets. From the perspective of CDA, the CCR is a
			standardized data set that can be used to constrain CDA specifically
			for summary documents.</p>
		<p>The resulting specification, known as the Continuity of Care
			Document (CCD), is developed as a collaborative effort between ASTM
			and HL7. It is intended as an alternate implementation to the one
			specified in ASTM ADJE2369 for those institutions or organizations
			committed to implementation of the HL7 Clinical Document
			Architecture.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
