<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<concept id="concept_436D9FA0ACD24FEEAEDE1125DD50E506"> 
  <title>Review CDA templates</title> 
  <shortdesc>The MDHT UML Editor provides a simplified approach to browsing and
	 editing UML models that is especially well suited to CDA template design. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <conbody> 
	 <p>The MDHT project provides an open source UML editing solution that may
		be used alone, or integrated into other complete UML modeling solutions. With
		only minor differences in the way a table editor is opened, the same solution
		described below is available within Rational Software Modeler (RSM) and Eclipse
		Papyrus. Other Eclipse-based UML tools also may be compatible, but have not
		been tested. 
	 </p> 
	 <p>There are several key features in this MDHT UML Editor: 
	 </p> 
	 <ul id="ul_4D3D47F0BA8C4F2B9A808A6C8E193662"> 
		<li id="li_E5A17C6C203F4712BEE8ADDB572A5DF9">A tree navigator view of UML
		  content in the Project Explorer. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_2928E2C7EF314BEABF10C312F13E4443">A spreadsheet-like table
		  where model content may be viewed and edited. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_68012A5615D9425BAA7B1F6542A81F32">Properties view tabs for
		  easy access to most common UML model value. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_4013C05061E84D2AB44B2FE664F46440">Template Constraint Dialog
		  for adding attribute constraints. 
		</li> 
		<li id="li_E66FB1D69C87477389BA7941CB272EF4">Model validation with error
		  markers (limited scope in this milestone). 
		</li> 
	 </ul> 
	 <p>This editing solution only supports UML classes and enumerations, the
		typical content of a UML class diagram, but without the diagram. Many analysts
		and developers of CDA templates and message structures use Excel spreadsheets
		for analysis. This table editor provides similar functionality, with the
		significant benefit that the underlying content is saved as a valid UML 2.1
		model. This model may be input directly into Java code generation or reporting
		tools that are based on UML. And the model may be enhanced with class diagrams
		using other full-featured and commercial UML modeling tools. 
	 </p> 
  </conbody>
</concept>
