<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgments</title>
	<body>
		<p>This document contains an example of healthcare standards and specifications publication
			generated from UML models, using the OHT Model Driven Health Tools (MDHT). Some portions of this
			document may not be publicly available but are included for demonstration purposes only,
			therefore this version of the document is to be treated as CONFIDENTIAL by the project
			participants.</p>

		<p>This demonstration document contains informtion from the following sources:</p>

		<p>&#169;2010 ANSI. This material may be copied without permission from ANSI only if and to the
			extent that the text is not altered in any fashion and ANSI’s copyright is clearly noted.</p>

		<p>SNOMED CT&#174; is the registered trademark of the International Health Terminology Standard
			Development Organization (IHTSDO).</p>
			
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC&#174; (http://loinc.org). The LOINC table, LOINC codes, and
		LOINC panels and forms file are copyright &#169; 1995-2010, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical
		Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Committee and available at no cost under the
		license at http://loinc.org/terms-of-use .</p>

		<p>Certain materials contained in this Interoperability Specification
			are reproduced from Health Level Seven (HL7) HL7 Implementation
			Guide: CDA Release 2 – Continuity of Care Document (CCD), HL7
			Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: History and Physical (H&amp;P)
			Notes, HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Consult Notes, or
			HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Operative Notes with
			permission of Health Level Seven, Inc. No part of the material may be
			copied or reproduced in any form outside of the Interoperability
			Specification documents, including an electronic retrieval system, or
			made available on the Internet without the prior written permission
			of Health Level Seven, Inc. Copies of standards included in this
			Interoperability Specification may be purchased from the Health Level
			Seven, Inc. Material drawn from these standards is credited where used.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
