<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Result Observation - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Observation (CONF-407)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-408)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt> (CONF-409)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt> (CONF-411)<ul><li>Represents the biologically relevant time (e.g. time the specimen was obtained from the patient).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt> (CONF-410)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt> (CONF-412)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>methodCode</tt> (CONF-414)<ul><li>Included if the method isn't inherent in code or if there is a need to further specialize the method in code.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain [0..*] <tt>interpretationCode</tt> (CONF-418)<ul><li>Can be used to provide a rough qualitative interpretation of the observation, such as 'N' (normal), 'L' (low), 'S' (susceptible), etc. Interpretation is generally provided for numeric results where an interpretation range has been defined, or for antimicrobial susceptibility test interpretation.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt> (CONF-416)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The value for 'code' SHOULD be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96), and MAY be selected from CPT-4 (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.12). (CONF-413)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The methodCode SHALL NOT conflict with the method inherent in code (CONF-415)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Where value is a physical quantity, the unit of measure SHALL be expressed using a valid Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM) expression. (CONF-417)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contain one or more referenceRange to show the normal range of values for the observation result (CONF-419)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.referenceRange-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: SHALL NOT contain referenceRange / observationRange / code, as this attribute is not used by the HL7 Clinical Statement or Lab Committee models. (CONF-420)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.referenceRange-&gt;forAll(range : cda::ReferenceRange | range.observationRange.code.code.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-421)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)
or (self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(rel : cda::EntryRelationship | 
   rel.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::REFR
   and rel.observation.code.code = '48766-0'))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Clinical Statement</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Observation</li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt>, where its data type is ActClassObservation</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-408)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt> (CONF-412)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt> (CONF-409)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt> (CONF-411)<ul><li>Represents the biologically relevant time (e.g. time the specimen was obtained from the patient).</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt> (CONF-410)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>methodCode</tt> (CONF-414)<ul><li>Included if the method isn't inherent in code or if there is a need to further specialize the method in code.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [0..*] <tt>interpretationCode</tt> (CONF-418)<ul><li>Can be used to provide a rough qualitative interpretation of the observation, such as 'N' (normal), 'L' (low), 'S' (susceptible), etc. Interpretation is generally provided for numeric results where an interpretation range has been defined, or for antimicrobial susceptibility test interpretation.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt> (CONF-416)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The value for 'code' SHOULD be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96), and MAY be selected from CPT-4 (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.12). (CONF-413)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The methodCode SHALL NOT conflict with the method inherent in code (CONF-415)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Where value is a physical quantity, the unit of measure SHALL be expressed using a valid Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM) expression. (CONF-417)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contain one or more referenceRange to show the normal range of values for the observation result (CONF-419)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.referenceRange-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: SHALL NOT contain referenceRange / observationRange / code, as this attribute is not used by the HL7 Clinical Statement or Lab Committee models. (CONF-420)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.referenceRange-&gt;forAll(range : cda::ReferenceRange | range.observationRange.code.code.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-421)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)
or (self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(rel : cda::EntryRelationship | 
   rel.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::REFR
   and rel.observation.code.code = '48766-0'))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Result Observation"/>
              <id root="3dfebf60-e3b4-4236-be7b-a6200f31865f"/>
              <code/>
              <statusCode/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <interpretationCode/>
              <methodCode/>
            </observation>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
