<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgments</title>
	<body>
		<p>This Draft Standard for Trial Use (DSTU) was produced and developed
			through the efforts of the Health Story Project. The project was
			initiated by the Association for Healthcare Documentation Integrity
			(AHDI), Medical Transcription Industry Association (MTIA), American
			Health Information Management Association (AHIMA), and M*Modal and is
			being managed by Alschuler Associates, LLC and Optimal Accords, LLC.
			Promoter members include A-Life Medical, Emdat, Fujitsu, GE
			Healthcare IT, InfraWare, MedQuist, Nuance, Osmosyz, Spheris, 3M, and
			Webmedx. Without their support and participation, this DSTU would not
			have been possible.</p>
		<p>In addition, this project has benefited from the participation of
			volunteers from MedFlow, Inc; Individual Care Standards Collaborative
			Working Group; Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP); FEI
			Behavioral Health; XML Modeling; MTWerks; American Dental Association
			(ADA); and Wayne State University Physician Group. Alschuler
			Associates, LLC provided project management.</p>
		<p>The co-editors appreciate the support and sponsorship of the HL7
			Structured Documents Work Group (SDWG).</p>
		<p>Finally, we acknowledge the foundational work by Health Level Seven
			(HL7) Version 3, the Reference Information Model (RIM), and the HL7
			domain committees, especially Patient Care, and the work done on
			Clinical Document Architecture (CDA) itself. We also acknowledge the
			development of the Care Record Summary (CRS) (the first published
			implementation guide for CDA), the development of a series of
			implementation profiles based on CRS by Integrating the Healthcare
			Enterprise (IHE) Patient Care Coordination (PCC), and the
			collaborative effort of ASTM (originally known as American Society
			for Testing and Materials) and HL7, which produced the Continuity of
			Care Document (CCD). All these efforts were critical ingredients to
			the development of this DSTU; the degree to which this DSTU reflects
			these efforts will foster interoperability across the spectrum of
			health care.</p>
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC&#174; (http://loinc.org) and
			SNOMED CT&#174; (http://www.ihtsdo.org/snomed-ct/). The LOINC table and
			LOINC codes are copyright &#169; 1995-2010, Regenstrief Institute, Inc.
			and the Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC)
			Committee. SNOMED CT is a registered trademark of the International
			Health Terminology Standard Development Organisation (IHTSDO).</p>
	</body>
</topic>
