<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<!-- Created with XMetaL (http://www.xmetal.com) -->
<task id="task_BF0033088D4A46149B2A3075A8025E2C"> 
  <title>Create a new Implementation Guide</title> 
  <shortdesc>Create a project for a new implementation guide model. 
  </shortdesc> 
  <taskbody> 
	 <context id="context_664A985212B34E90ABC7A343E44A99E4"> 
		<p><b>NOTE: we will work on replacing this process with a Wizard in the
			 next milestone.</b>
		</p>
		<p>The best way to create a new project is to copy the provided example
		  project and run the 
		  <filepath>refactor.xml</filepath> Ant script to rename it. This can be
		  accomplished by following these steps. 
		</p> 
	 </context> 
	 <steps id="steps_45339D40C6E84155B22A8233B6F0BD00"> 
		<step id="step_766AB5962A3844D093395F12C182521E"> 
		  <cmd>Download and disconnect the example project from the MDHT SVN
			 repository 
		  </cmd> 
		  <substeps id="substeps_5394692F851D497D9DDDE98C914E4D7C"> 
			 <substep id="substep_19CBFFAE855C4B0D9E1218682D0D2575"> 
				<cmd>Check out 
				  <tt>cda/example/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.example</tt>.
				  Please check out a new unmodified project, don't start with an example you have
				  changed. 
				</cmd> 
			 </substep> 
			 <substep id="substep_1304813B75DB41ED8C655C1A08A4037C"> 
				<cmd>Right-click on this new project and select 
				  <menucascade><uicontrol>Team</uicontrol><uicontrol>Disconnect</uicontrol></menucascade>,
				  and select the option: 'Also delete SVN meta-information from file system' 
				</cmd> 
			 </substep> 
		  </substeps> 
		</step> 
		<step id="step_71D3E8187C5A4F15B4235123147C526A"> 
		  <cmd>Rename the project. Right-click on the new project and select 
			 <menucascade><uicontrol>Refactor</uicontrol><uicontrol>Rename</uicontrol></menucascade>.
			 For example, enter the new project name 'org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ncr'.
			 
		  </cmd> 
		</step> 
		<step id="step_F20A63796D07445789C10636B3291D9E"> 
		  <cmd>Edit and run the 
			 <filepath>refactor.xml</filepath> script. 
		  </cmd> 
		  <substeps id="substeps_FDB6ECBFA901460BBE62DBCE9041A0DE"> 
			 <substep id="substep_2CCF496745A446B2B4FAF47A64CACEEA"> 
				<cmd>Open the refactor.xml script in the Ant or text editor. 
				</cmd> 
			 </substep> 
			 <substep id="substep_C36C7A747C6141C5B8D2CCAE0B3DA815"> 
				<cmd>Change the property values for the following properties:
				  basePackage (e.g. org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda), packageName (e.g. ncr),
				  prefix (NCR), and nsURI (e.g. http://www.openhealthtools.org/mdht/uml/cda/ncr).
				  
				</cmd> 
			 </substep> 
			 <substep id="substep_21C28D4B09CE420BBFD2D30D46A0D974"> 
				<cmd>Run the 
				  <filepath>refactor.xml</filepath> script as an Ant build. Make
				  sure to run in the same JRE as the workpace. 
				</cmd> 
			 </substep> 
		  </substeps> 
		</step> 
	 </steps> 
  </taskbody>
</task>
