<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
 <!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="generatejava" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Manual Java Generation Process</title>
    <shortdesc>These steps will walk you through the process to manual generate the java source
        code.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
       <prereq>The Java project must not have the CDABuilder active. Check the builders by Right
            Clickin on Java Project and select <menucascade>
                <uicontrol>properties</uicontrol>
                <uicontrol>Builders</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>. If the CDA Project Builder is listed with a check mark hit Cancel then
            Right Click on Java Project and select Add/Remove CDA Builder if the builder is
            active.</prereq>
        <context>
            <p>MDHT provides an automated build but you can always manually build parts of the project</p>
        </context>
        
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Run Model Transformation</cmd>
                <choices>
                    <choice>First Time Running</choice>
                </choices>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Right Click on the transform.xml file in the Java project</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select Run as Ant Task...</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select the JRE Tab</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Set Runtime JRE option to <userinput>Run in the same JRE as the
                                workspace</userinput></cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
                <choices>
                    <choice>All Other Times</choice>
                </choices>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Right Click on the transform.xml file in the Java project</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Select Run as Ant Task</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
                <stepresult>The transform takes the structural constraints defined in the source UML
                    model and generates a series of OCL constraints in the target model. The new UML
                    model will be in the model folder in the java project. </stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Generate Model Classes (Java APIs) from the EMF model</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd> Right-click on the mytestmodel.genmodel file in the model folder and
                            select "Reload" from the context menu.</cmd>
                    </substep>

                    <substep>
                        <cmd> Select "UML model" and then select "Next".</cmd>
                    </substep>

                    <substep>
                        <cmd> Select "next" again. (This tells it to pull the information from the
                            mytestmodel_Ecore.uml file that was just created from the
                            transform.</cmd>
                    </substep>

                    <substep>
                        <cmd> Select "Finish" </cmd>

                    </substep>
                </substeps>
                <stepresult>When this is finished, it will open the mytestmodel.genModel in the
                    eclipse editor. It will have regenerated mytestmodel.ecore and
                    mytestmodel.genmodel files.</stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>In the eclipse editor, right-click on the mytestmodel node (in the editor
                    window and not the project window) and select "Generate Model Code" from the
                    context menu.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <note>If you encouter errors in the compiled Java source code, here are some steps
                    to fix the issue</note>
                <cmd>How to Fix Source Code</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Expand the "src" folder in the project.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Delete the org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.consol.mytestmodel package
                            and sub-packages</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Re-Generate the model code</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <postreq>The Java source code has been generated and compiled without any errors. You are
            ready to use the Java source to create, consume, and validate CDA documents.</postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
