<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_nrt_3dd_cj" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Produce CDA Content using MDHT API</title>
    <shortdesc>An example utilizing the MDHT Java API to create a CDA document</shortdesc>

    <taskbody>
        <context> Using the APIs to programmatically construct an instance. When someone needs to
            produce an instance they have clinical data and want to get it into CDA format. They
            will use Java APIs to programmatically construct a CDA in XML format. </context>



        <steps>
            <stepsection> In this example, we are creating the ContinuityOfCareDocument object using
                the generated CCD template model API. The first line of code uses the Factory method
                pattern discussed in Section 2.6 to create an instance of the
                ContinuityOfCareDocument class. In the same line, there is a call to the init()
                method which initializes the object with default/fixed values present in the model.
                For example, the template identifier is always fixed for the CCD document-level
                template. Therefore, it is auto-populated by the call to the init() method. Figure
                xx also shows the creation of the PatientRole and Patient objects. These are created
                using the CDAFactory class from the generated CDA base model API. Attributes of the
                objects are created using the HL7 Datatypes base model API. For example, the
                administrative gender code is created and added to the patient object. </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create CCD Document</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>      // create and initialize an instance of the ContinuityOfCareDocument class
        ContinuityOfCareDocument ccdDocument = CCDFactory.eINSTANCE.createContinuityOfCareDocument().init();
        
        // create a patient role object and add it to the document
        PatientRole patientRole = CDAFactory.eINSTANCE.createPatientRole();
        ccdDocument.addPatientRole(patientRole);
        II id = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createII();
        patientRole.getIds().add(id);
        id.setRoot("996-756-495");
        id.setExtension("2.16.840.1.113883.19.5");
        
        // create an address object and add it to patient role
        AD addr = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createAD();
        patientRole.getAddrs().add(addr);
        addr.getUses().add(PostalAddressUse.H);
        addr.addStreetAddressLine("1313 Mockingbird Lane");
        addr.addCity("Janesville");
        addr.addState("WI");
        addr.addPostalCode("53545");
        
        // create a patient object and add it to patient role
        Patient patient = CDAFactory.eINSTANCE.createPatient();
        patientRole.setPatient(patient);
        PN name = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createPN();
        patient.getNames().add(name);
        name.addGiven("Henry");
        name.addFamily("Levin");
        
        CE administrativeGenderCode = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCE();
        
        patient.setAdministrativeGenderCode(administrativeGenderCode);
        administrativeGenderCode.setCode("M");
        administrativeGenderCode.setCodeSystem("2.16.840.1.113883.5.1");
        
        TS birthTime = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createTS();
        patient.setBirthTime(birthTime);
        birthTime.setValue("19320924");</codeblock>
                </stepxmp>
            </step>
            <stepsection> Next we create the CCD Alerts Section also using the CCD API and add it to
                the document using a convenience method named addSection from the ClinicalDocument
                class. This method will create the intermediate objects (component, structuredBody,
                component) required to add a section. Once the alert section is created, we must
                create the narrative block portion of the document. In CDA, this is HTML-like markup
                that captures the human-readable portion of the document. Typically it is this
                portion which is rendered in web browser using a stylesheet. MDHT treats the
                narrative text as an opaque chunk of XML. Therefore it must be constructed as such.
                In the example, we build up the narrative block using a Java StringBuffer and then
                use it to construct the narrative block with a call to
                createSrucDocText.</stepsection>
            <step>

                <cmd> Create Alerts Section </cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>      // create and initialize the CCD alerts section
        AlertsSection alertsSection = CCDFactory.eINSTANCE.createAlertsSection().init();
        ccdDocument.addSection(alertsSection);
        
        // set up the narrative (human-readable) text portion of the alerts section
        StringBuffer buffer = new StringBuffer();
        buffer.append("<![CDATA[<table border=\"1\" width=\"100%\">]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<thead>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<tr>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<th>Substance</th>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<th>Reaction</th>]]>");
            buffer.append(<![CDATA["<th>Status</th>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[</tr>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[</thead>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<tbody>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<tr>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<td>Penicillin</td>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<td>Hives</td>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[<td>Active</td>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[</tr>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[</tbody>]]>");
            buffer.append("<![CDATA[</table>]]>");
            alertsSection.createStrucDocText(buffer.toString());</codeblock></stepxmp>
            </step>

            <stepsection> The Alert Section contains an enclosing problem act entry which we create
                using the CCDFactory as seen in Figure xx. We also add an id to the problem act
                using the Datatypes API and Java utility class UU(ID. </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Creating Problem Act</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>        // create and initialize a CCD problem act
            ProblemAct problemAct = CCDFactory.eINSTANCE.createProblemAct().init();
            alertsSection.addAct(problemAct);
            
            id = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createII();
            problemAct.getIds().add(id);
            id.setRoot(UUID.randomUUID().toString());
            </codeblock></stepxmp>
            </step>

            <stepsection> An alert observation is then added to the problem act as a subordinate
                entry using the convenience method addObservation from the CDA ClinicalStatement
                class. This method will add the intermediate entry relationship object and then the
                subordinate observation. Because addObservation creates the EntryRelationshp for us,
                we must go back and set the type code (if necessary) per the model. In this case we
                want the type code to be SUBJ. Therefore we use the Ecore Reflection API (part of
                the low-level technology APIs) to get the container of the Alert Observation
                instance and downcast it to an EntryRelationship object which we then use to the set
                type code. In Figure xx above, we also create the id, code, statusCode and value
                attributes using the DatatypesFactory class. </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Creating Alert Observation</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>     // create and initialize an alert observation within the problem act
            AlertObservation alertObservation = CCDFactory.eINSTANCE.createAlertObservation().init();
            problemAct.addObservation(alertObservation);
            ((EntryRelationship) alertObservation.eContainer()).setTypeCode(x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship.SUBJ);
            
            id = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createII();
            alertObservation.getIds().add(id);
            id.setRoot(UUID.randomUUID().toString());
            
            CD code = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCD();
            alertObservation.setCode(code);
            code.setCode("ASSERTION");
            code.setCodeSystem("2.16.840.1.113883.5.4");
            
            CS statusCode = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCS();
            alertObservation.setStatusCode(statusCode);
            statusCode.setCode("completed");
            
            CD value = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCD();
            alertObservation.getValues().add(value);
            value.setCode("282100009");
            value.setCodeSystem("2.16.840.1.113883.6.96");
            value.setDisplayName("Adverse reaction to substance");</codeblock></stepxmp>
            </step>
            <stepsection> Next we need to say something about the allergic substance. We do so by
                using the Playing Entity class. Playing Entity is nested under Participant and
                Participant Role – objects that we create using CDAFactory. In Playing Entity, we
                set the code for Penicillin from RxNorm. </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Creating Playing Entity</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>       // playing entity contains coded information on the substance
            Participant2 participant = CDAFactory.eINSTANCE.createParticipant2();
            alertObservation.getParticipants().add(participant);
            participant.setTypeCode(ParticipationType.CSM);
            
            ParticipantRole participantRole = CDAFactory.eINSTANCE.createParticipantRole();
            participant.setParticipantRole(participantRole);
            participantRole.setClassCode(RoleClassRoot.MANU);
            
            PlayingEntity playingEntity = CDAFactory.eINSTANCE.createPlayingEntity();
            participantRole.setPlayingEntity(playingEntity);
            playingEntity.setClassCode(EntityClassRoot.MMAT);
            CE playingEntityCode = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCE();
            playingEntity.setCode(playingEntityCode);
            playingEntityCode.setCode("70618");
            playingEntityCode.setCodeSystem("2.16.840.1.113883.6.88");
            playingEntityCode.setDisplayName("Penicillin");</codeblock></stepxmp>
            </step>

            <stepsection> The AlertObservation also has a place for conveying reaction information.
                A Reaction Observation instance is created using CCDFactory and added to alert
                observation using the addObservation method. Again this creates the intermediate
                entry relationship object that we immediately access using ehe eContainer method
                from Ecore Reflection API to set the type code. We also set the code to ASSERTION
                the status code to “completed” and the value of the observation to the code for
                “Hives” from SNOMED. </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Creating Reaction Observation</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>        // reaction observation contains coded information on the adverse reaction
            ReactionObservation reactionObservation = CCDFactory.eINSTANCE.createReactionObservation().init();
            alertObservation.addObservation(reactionObservation);
            ((EntryRelationship) reactionObservation.eContainer()).setTypeCode(x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship.MFST);
            ((EntryRelationship) reactionObservation.eContainer()).setInversionInd(Boolean.TRUE);
            
            code = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCD();
            reactionObservation.setCode(code);
            code.setCode("ASSERTION");
            code.setCodeSystem("2.16.840.1.113883.5.4");
            
            statusCode = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCS();
            reactionObservation.setStatusCode(statusCode);
            statusCode.setCode("completed");
            
            value = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCD();
            reactionObservation.getValues().add(value);
            value.setCode("247472004");
            value.setCodeSystem("2.16.840.1.113883.6.96");
            value.setDisplayName("Hives");</codeblock></stepxmp>
            </step>

            <stepsection> Finally, we want to add information about the status of the allergy using
                Alert Status. This is another clinical statement template from CCD named Alert
                Status Observation. We create and instance of the Alert Status Observation class
                using CCDFactory. Then we set the type code in a similar fashion to reaction
                observation and we set the value to code for “Active” from SNOMED. </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Creating Alert Status</cmd>
                <stepxmp>
                    <codeblock>      
            // alert status contains information about whether allergy is currently active
            AlertStatusObservation alertStatusObservation = CCDFactory.eINSTANCE.createAlertStatusObservation().init();
            alertObservation.addObservation(alertStatusObservation);
            ((EntryRelationship) alertStatusObservation.eContainer()).setTypeCode(x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship.REFR);
            
            CE alertStatusObservationValue = DatatypesFactory.eINSTANCE.createCE();
            alertStatusObservation.getValues().add(alertStatusObservationValue);
            alertStatusObservationValue.setCode("55561003");
            alertStatusObservationValue.setCodeSystem("2.16.840.1.113883.6.96");
            alertStatusObservationValue.setDisplayName("Active");</codeblock></stepxmp>
            </step>
            <stepsection> Once we have constructed our document using the various APIs, typically we
                want to serialize the Java objects to XML. In Figure xx above, we using the CDAUtil
                class to save the ccdDocument to a Java output stream. In this example, we use
                System.out which prints the XML representation to the console. </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Serializing the Document to XML</cmd>
                <stepxmp><codeblock>         // write the document out to the console
            CDAUtil.save(ccdDocument, System.out);
            </codeblock></stepxmp>

            </step>

        </steps>
        <result>
            <codeblock>
<![CDATA[           
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
    <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1"/>
    <code code="34133-9" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Summarization of episode note"/>
    <recordTarget>
        <patientRole>
            <id root="996-756-495" extension="2.16.840.1.113883.19.5"/>
            <addr use="H"><streetAddressLine>1313 Mockingbird Lane</streetAddressLine><city>Janesville</city><state>WI</state><postalCode>53545</postalCode></addr>
            <patient>
                <name><given>Henry</given><family>Levin</family></name>
                <administrativeGenderCode code="M" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.1"/>
                <birthTime value="19320924"/>
            </patient>
        </patientRole>
    </recordTarget>
    <component>
        <structuredBody>
            <component>
                <section>
                    <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.2"/>
                    <code code="48765-2" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Allergies, adverse reactions, alerts"/>
                    <text><table border="1" width="100%"><thead><tr><th>Substance</th><th>Reaction</th><th>Status</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Penicillin</td><td>Hives</td><td>Active</td></tr></tbody></table></text>
                    <entry>
                        <act classCode="ACT" moodCode="EVN">
                            <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.27"/>
                            <id root="a7140229-4a87-457a-b63e-50b79c57dfa1"/>
                            <code nullFlavor="NA"/>
                            <entryRelationship typeCode="SUBJ">
                                <observation moodCode="EVN">
                                    <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.18"/>
                                    <id root="85d9039f-d254-4d5b-86d1-7500279f0454"/>
                                    <code code="ASSERTION" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.4"/>
                                    <statusCode code="completed"/>
                                    <value xsi:type="CD" code="282100009" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.96" displayName="Adverse reaction to substance"/>
                                    <participant typeCode="CSM">
                                        <participantRole classCode="MANU">
                                            <playingEntity classCode="MMAT">
                                                <code code="70618" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.88" displayName="Penicillin"/>
                                            </playingEntity>
                                        </participantRole>
                                    </participant>
                                    <entryRelationship typeCode="MFST" inversionInd="true">
                                        <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
                                            <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.54"/>
                                            <code code="ASSERTION" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.4"/>
                                            <statusCode code="completed"/>
                                            <value xsi:type="CD" code="247472004" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.96" displayName="Hives"/>
                                        </observation>
                                    </entryRelationship>
                                    <entryRelationship typeCode="REFR">
                                        <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
                                            <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.57"/>
                                            <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.39"/>
                                            <code code="33999-4" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Status"/>
                                            <statusCode code="completed"/>
                                            <value xsi:type="CE" code="55561003" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.96" displayName="Active"/>
                                        </observation>
                                    </entryRelationship>
                                </observation>
                            </entryRelationship>
                        </act>
                    </entry>
                </section>
            </component>
        </structuredBody>
    </component>
</ClinicalDocument>

]]>
            </codeblock>
            <note>Note that many of the fixed/default values for the various templates (document,
                section and entry-level) have been filled in automatically from the model. This
                reduces the amount of client code necessary to create a conformant instance. </note>
        </result>
    </taskbody>
</task>
