<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Condition Entry - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>null</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="null"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>Condition Entry is not defined as a separate template in HITSP C83, but only as additional constraints on the IHE Problem Entry when embedded in a Condition template. In this model, Condition Entry is defined as a separate class (without a template ID) that restricts the IHE Problem Entry. When these templates are consolidated in the new implementation guide, these Condition Entry constraints will be merged with Problem Entry.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProblemEntry.html">IHE Problem Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.3221.7.2 Problem Type Value Set STATIC 1</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.3221.7.4 Problem Value Set STATIC 1</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The onset date SHALL be recorded in the &lt;low&gt; element of the &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element when known. (C83-[DE-7.01-1])<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.effectiveTime.low.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The resolution data SHALL be recorded in the &lt;high&gt; element of the &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element when known. (C83-[DE-7.01-2])<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.effectiveTime.high.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: If the problem is known to be resolved, but the date of resolution is not known, then the &lt;high&gt; element SHALL be present, and the nullFlavor attribute SHALL be set to 'UNK'. Therefore, the existence of an &lt;high&gt; element within a problem does indicate that the problem has been resolved. (C83-[DE-7.01-3])<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.effectiveTime.high.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalStatement.html">CDA Clinical Statement</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Observation.html">CDA Observation</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemObservation.html">CCD Problem Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.28</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProblemEntry.html">IHE Problem Entry</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5</tt>)</li>
<li>[CCD] Contains [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "OBS"</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-155)</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt>, which <b>SHOULD</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.3221.7.2 Problem Type Value Set STATIC 1</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "completed"  (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus STATIC V3NE08) (CONF-156, CONF-157)</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt><ul><li>The &lt;effectiveTime> of this &lt;observation> is the time interval over which the &lt;observation> is known to be true. The &lt;low> and &lt;high> values should be no more precise than known, but as precise as possible. While CDA allows for multiple mechanisms to record this time interval (e.g., by low and high values, low and width, high and width, or center point and width), we are constraining Medical summaries to use only the low/high form. The &lt;low> value is the earliest point for which the condition is known to have existed. The &lt;high> value, when present, indicates the time at which the observation was no longer known to be true. Thus, the implication is made that if the &lt;high> value is specified, that the observation was no longer seen after this time, and it thus represents the date of resolution of the problem. Similarly, the &lt;low> value may seem to represent onset of the problem. Neither of these statements is necessarily precise, as the &lt;low> and &lt;high> values may represent only an approximation of the true onset and resolution (respectively) times. For example, it may be the case that onset occurred prior to the &lt;low> value, but no observation may have been possible before that time to discern whether the condition existed prior to that time. The &lt;low> value should normally be present. There are exceptions, such as for the case where the patient may be able to report that they had chicken pox, but are unsure when. In this case, the &lt;effectiveTime> element shall have a &lt;low> element with a nullFlavor attribute set to 'UNK'. The &lt;high> value need not be present when the observation is about a state of the patient that is unlikely to change (e.g., the diagnosis of an incurable disease).</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="REFR" <i>REFR (refers to)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemStatusObservation.html">CCD Problem Status Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.50</tt>) (CONF-162)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="REFR" <i>REFR (refers to)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ProblemHealthStatusObservation.html">CCD Problem Health Status Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.51</tt>) (CONF-165)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="SUBJ" <i>SUBJ (has subject)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/AgeObservation.html">CCD Age Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.38</tt>) (CONF-160)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt><ul><li>The specific observation being recorded must have an identifier (&lt;id>) that shall be provided for tracking purposes. If the source EMR does not or cannot supply an intrinsic identifier, then a GUID shall be provided as the root, with no extension (e.g., &lt;id root='CE1215CD-69EC-4C7B-805F-569233C5E159'/>). At least one identifier must be present, more than one may appear.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>text</tt><ul><li>The &lt;text> element is required and points to the text describing the problem being recorded; including any dates, comments, et cetera. The &lt;reference> contains a URI in value attribute. This URI points to the free text description of the problem in the document that is being described.</li></ul></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet 2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.12.3221.7.4 Problem Value Set STATIC 1</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/Severity.html">IHE Severity</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="REFR" <i>REFR (refers to)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/ProblemStatusObservation.html">IHE Problem Status Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1.1</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="REFR" <i>REFR (refers to)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/HealthStatusObservation.html">IHE Health Status Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="SUBJ" <i>SUBJ (has subject)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/Comment.html">IHE Comment</xref> (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.2</tt>)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-161)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)
or (self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(rel : cda::EntryRelationship | 
   rel.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::REFR
   and rel.observation.code.code = '48766-0'))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one Patient Awareness (CONF-180)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.participant-&gt;one(partic : cda::Participant2 | partic.oclIsKindOf(ccd::PatientAwareness))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The problem name SHALL be recorded in the entry by recording a &lt;reference&gt; where the value attribute points to the narrative text containing the name of the problem.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.text.reference.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: If entryRelationship / Comment is present, then entryRelationship inversionInd = 'true'.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.entryRelationship-&gt;forAll(rel : cda::EntryRelationship | (not rel.act.oclIsUndefined() and rel.act.oclIsKindOf(ihe::Comment)) implies rel.inversionInd='true')</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The onset date SHALL be recorded in the &lt;low&gt; element of the &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element when known. (C83-[DE-7.01-1])<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.effectiveTime.low.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The resolution data SHALL be recorded in the &lt;high&gt; element of the &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element when known. (C83-[DE-7.01-2])<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.effectiveTime.high.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: If the problem is known to be resolved, but the date of resolution is not known, then the &lt;high&gt; element SHALL be present, and the nullFlavor attribute SHALL be set to 'UNK'. Therefore, the existence of an &lt;high&gt; element within a problem does indicate that the problem has been resolved. (C83-[DE-7.01-3])<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.effectiveTime.high.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.28" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Problem Observation"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.5" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Problem Entry"/>
              <templateId assigningAuthorityName="HITSP Condition Entry"/>
              <id root="1a96a973-1b46-4eb0-aa12-88eb566583cf"/>
              <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.96" codeSystemName="SNOMEDCT"/>
              <text/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <value xsi:type="CD"/>
            </observation>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
