<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Result - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.15</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.15"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>This module contains current and relevant historical result observations for the patient. The scope of "observations" is broad with the exception of "vital signs" which are contained in the Vital Signs section.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ResultObservation.html">CCD Result Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31</tt>) ([C83-[DE-15-CDA-3])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/SimpleObservation.html">IHE Simple Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13</tt>) (C83-[DE-15-CDA-2])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt><ul><li>The Result value records the desired result in a goal or recorded event, and will not present when recording an intent, request or proposal to measure a result.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Result Type SHOULD be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96) (C154-[DE-15.03-1])</li>
<li><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Result Type for laboratory results SHOULD be coded as specified in HITSP/C80 Section 2.2.3.6.1 Laboratory Observations. (C154-[DE-15.03-2])</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Result Value SHALL be present when the observation/@moodCode is EVN or GOL, and SHALL NOT be present when observation/@moodCode is INT or PRP. (C83-[DE-15.05-CDA-1])<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: (self.moodCode = vocab::x_ActMoodDocumentObservation::EVN or self.moodCode = vocab::x_ActMoodDocumentObservation::EVN)
    implies (not self.value-&gt;isEmpty()) and
  (self.moodCode = vocab::x_ActMoodDocumentObservation::INT or self.moodCode = vocab::x_ActMoodDocumentObservation::PRP)
   implies (self.value-&gt;isEmpty())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/classes/SimpleObservation.html">IHE Simple Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalStatement.html">CDA Clinical Statement</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Observation.html">CDA Observation</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ResultObservation.html">CCD Result Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31</tt>)</li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt>, where its data type is ActClassObservation</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-408)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt> (CONF-409)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt> (CONF-410)</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>methodCode</tt><ul><li>Included if the method isn't inherent in code or if there is a need to further specialize the method in code.</li></ul> (CONF-414)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [0..*] <tt>interpretationCode</tt><ul><li>Can be used to provide a rough qualitative interpretation of the observation, such as 'N' (normal), 'L' (low), 'S' (susceptible), etc. Interpretation is generally provided for numeric results where an interpretation range has been defined, or for antimicrobial susceptibility test interpretation.</li></ul> (CONF-418)</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt><ul><li>The Result value records the desired result in a goal or recorded event, and will not present when recording an intent, request or proposal to measure a result.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The value for 'code' SHOULD be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96), and MAY be selected from CPT-4 (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.12). (CONF-413)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The methodCode SHALL NOT conflict with the method inherent in code (CONF-415)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Where value is a physical quantity, the unit of measure SHALL be expressed using a valid Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM) expression. (CONF-417)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contain one or more referenceRange to show the normal range of values for the observation result (CONF-419)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.referenceRange-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: SHALL NOT contain referenceRange / observationRange / code, as this attribute is not used by the HL7 Clinical Statement or Lab Committee models. (CONF-420)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.referenceRange-&gt;forAll(range : cda::ReferenceRange | range.observationRange.code.code.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-421)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)
or (self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(rel : cda::EntryRelationship | 
   rel.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::REFR
   and rel.observation.code.code = '48766-0'))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Result Type SHOULD be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96) (C154-[DE-15.03-1])</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Result Type for laboratory results SHOULD be coded as specified in HITSP/C80 Section 2.2.3.6.1 Laboratory Observations. (C154-[DE-15.03-2])</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Result Value SHALL be present when the observation/@moodCode is EVN or GOL, and SHALL NOT be present when observation/@moodCode is INT or PRP. (C83-[DE-15.05-CDA-1])<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: (self.moodCode = vocab::x_ActMoodDocumentObservation::EVN or self.moodCode = vocab::x_ActMoodDocumentObservation::EVN)
    implies (not self.value-&gt;isEmpty()) and
  (self.moodCode = vocab::x_ActMoodDocumentObservation::INT or self.moodCode = vocab::x_ActMoodDocumentObservation::PRP)
   implies (self.value-&gt;isEmpty())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Result Observation"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Simple Observation"/>
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.15" assigningAuthorityName="HITSP Result"/>
              <id root="4010cd7d-f139-4fc5-a1f7-d74197a42474"/>
              <code/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <interpretationCode/>
              <methodCode/>
            </observation>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
