<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Scan Data Enterer - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[DataEnterer: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.3</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>DataEnterer</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.3"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>Represents the scanner operator who produced the scanned content.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/DataEnterer.html">CDA Data Enterer</xref></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>time</tt><ul><li>Denotes the time at which the original content was scanned.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The time shall be equal to that of ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime. At a minimum, the time shall be precise to the day and shall include the time zone offset from GMT.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.time.value = self.getClinicalDocument().effectiveTime.value</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedEntity/id element has both the root and the extension attributes. The root shall be the oid of the scanning facility and the extension shall be an appropriately assigned, facility unique id of the operator.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.assignedEntity.id-&gt;forAll(ident : datatypes::II | not ident.root.oclIsUndefined() and not ident.extension.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/DataEnterer.html">CDA Data Enterer</xref></li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>assignedEntity</tt>, where its type is <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/AssignedEntity.html">CDA Assigned Entity</xref></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>time</tt><ul><li>Denotes the time at which the original content was scanned.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The time shall be equal to that of ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime. At a minimum, the time shall be precise to the day and shall include the time zone offset from GMT.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.time.value = self.getClinicalDocument().effectiveTime.value</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedEntity/id element has both the root and the extension attributes. The root shall be the oid of the scanning facility and the extension shall be an appropriately assigned, facility unique id of the operator.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.assignedEntity.id-&gt;forAll(ident : datatypes::II | not ident.root.oclIsUndefined() and not ident.extension.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
