<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Vital Sign Observation - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ResultObservation.html">CCD Result Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31</tt>)</li>
<li>Conforms to <xref href="../SimpleObservation.dita">Simple Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC 2.26)</li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>interpretationCode</tt><ul><li>The interpretation code may be present to provide an interpretation of the vital signs measure (e.g., High, Normal, Low, et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>methodCode</tt><ul><li>The method code element may be present to indicate the method used to obtain the measure. Note that method used is distinct from, but possibly related to the target site.</li></ul></li>
<li>Contains [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><ul><li>The observations have all been completed.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>targetSiteCode</tt><ul><li>The target site of the measure may be identified in the targetSiteCode element (e.g., Left arm [blood pressure], oral [temperature], et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt>, where its data type is PQ</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li>Conforms to <xref href="../SimpleObservation.dita">Simple Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13</tt>)</li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/ClinicalStatement.html">CDA Clinical Statement</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.doc/classes/Observation.html">CDA Observation</xref></li>
<li>Conforms to <xref format="html" href="http://www.cdatools.org/infocenter/topic/org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/classes/ResultObservation.html">CCD Result Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31</tt>)</li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt>, where its data type is ActClassObservation</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-408: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN"</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-409: </b><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt></li>
<li>[IHE] Contains [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><ul><li>The observations have all been completed.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC 2.26)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-411: </b><b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>effectiveTime</tt><ul><li>Represents the biologically relevant time (e.g. time the specimen was obtained from the patient).</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>methodCode</tt><ul><li>The method code element may be present to indicate the method used to obtain the measure. Note that method used is distinct from, but possibly related to the target site.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>interpretationCode</tt><ul><li>The interpretation code may be present to provide an interpretation of the vital signs measure (e.g., High, Normal, Low, et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt>, where its data type is PQ</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>targetSiteCode</tt><ul><li>The target site of the measure may be identified in the targetSiteCode element (e.g., Left arm [blood pressure], oral [temperature], et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-413: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: The value for 'code' SHOULD be selected from LOINC (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1) or SNOMED CT (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.96), and MAY be selected from CPT-4 (codeSystem 2.16.840.1.113883.6.12).</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-415: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The methodCode SHALL NOT conflict with the method inherent in code</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-417: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Where value is a physical quantity, the unit of measure SHALL be expressed using a valid Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM) expression.</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-419: </b><b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contain one or more referenceRange to show the normal range of values for the observation result<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.referenceRange-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-420: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: SHALL NOT contain referenceRange / observationRange / code, as this attribute is not used by the HL7 Clinical Statement or Lab Committee models.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.referenceRange-&gt;forAll(range : cda::ReferenceRange | range.observationRange.code.code.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>CONF-421: </b><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)
or (self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(rel : cda::EntryRelationship | 
   rel.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::REFR
   and rel.observation.code.code = '48766-0'))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.31" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Result Observation"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Simple Observation"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.13.2" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Vital Sign Observation"/>
              <id root="4997e6e6-304b-4823-b242-cfa107a7c379"/>
              <code codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC"/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
              <effectiveTime>
                <low value="1972"/>
                <high value="2008"/>
              </effectiveTime>
              <value xsi:type="PQ"/>
              <interpretationCode/>
              <methodCode/>
              <targetSiteCode/>
            </observation>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
