<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>REFERENCES</title>
	<body>
		<p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					HL7 Implementation Guide: CDA Release 2 – Continuity of Care Document (CCD) A CDA implementation of ASTM E2369-05 Standard Specification for Continuity of Care Record© (CCR) April 01, 2007 available through <xref format="html" href="http://www.hl7.org">HL7</xref>
					.
				</li>
				<li>
					HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2 Quality Reporting
					Document Architecture (QRDA) Draft Standard for Trial Use March
					2009. Available at:
					<xref format="zip" href="http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/ballots/2008sep/downloads/CDAR2_QRDA_R1_DSTU_2009APR.zip">Quality Reporting Document Architecture (QRDA)</xref>
				</li>
				<li>
					HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2 CDA for Public Health
					Case Reports (PHCR) Informative Standard October 2009. Available
					through
					<xref format="html" href="http://www.hl7.org">HL7</xref>
					.
				</li>
				<li>
					HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: NHSN Healthcare
					Associated Infection (HAI) Reports, Release 2 Draft Standard for
					Trial Use January 2009 Available at:
					<xref format="zip" href="http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/ballots/2009JAN/downloads/CDAR2L3_IG_HAIRPT_R2_DSTU_2009MAR.zip">NHSN Healthcare Associated
						Infection (HAI) Reports</xref>
				</li>
				<li>
					Dolin RH, Alschuler L, Boyer S, Beebe C, Behlen FM, Biron PV,
					Shabo
					A, (Editors). HL7 Clinical Document Architecture, Release
					2.0.
					ANSI-approved HL7 Standard; May 2005. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Health
					Level Seven, Inc. Available through
					<xref format="html" href="http://www.hl7.org">HL7</xref>
					or if an HL7 member with
					the following link:
					<xref format="zip" href="http://www.hl7.org/documentcenter/private/standards/cda/r2/cda_r2_normativewebedition.zip">CDA Release 2 Normative Web Edition.</xref>
				</li>
				<li>
					<xref format="html" href="http://www.regenstrief.org/loinc">LOINC®</xref>
					: Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes,
					Regenstrief
					Institute.
				</li>
				<li>
					<xref format="html" href="http://www.ihtsdo.org/">SNOMED CT®</xref>
					: SNOMED Clinical Terms SNOMED International
					Organization.
				</li>
				<li>
					Extensible Markup Language,
					<xref format="html" href="http://www.w3.org/XML">www.w3.org/XML</xref>
					.
				</li>
				<li>
					Dolin RH, Alschuler L, Boyer S, Beebe C, Behlen FM, Biron PV,
					Shabo
					A., HL7 Clinical Document Architecture, Release 2. J Am Med
					Inform
					Assoc. 2006;13:30-39. Available at:
					<xref format="html" href="http://www.jamia.org/cgi/reprint/13/1/30">http://www.jamia.org/cgi/reprint/13/1/30</xref>
					.
				</li>
				<li>
					Using SNOMED CT in HL7 Version 3; Implementation Guide, Release
					1.5. Available through
					<xref format="html" href="http://www.hl7.org">HL7</xref>
					or if an HL7 member with the following
					link:
					<xref format="html" href="http://www.hl7.org/v3ballot/html/infrastructure/terminfo/terminfo.htm">Using SNOMED CT in HL7 Version 3</xref>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</p>
	</body>
</topic>
