<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Physical Examination Section - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Section: templateId <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.10</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Section</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.10"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>The Physical Examination section includes direct observations made by the clinician.
The examination may include the use of simple instruments and may also describe
simple maneuvers performed directly on the patient's body. This section only includes
observations made by the examining clinician using inspection, palpation, auscultation,
and percussion; it does not include laboratory or imaging findings. The exam may be
limited to pertinent body systems based on the patient's chief complaint or it may
include a comprehensive examination. The examination may be reported as a collection
of random clinical statements or it may be reported categorically. Categorical report
formats may be divided into multiple subsections, including Vital Signs, General Status,
and any of the subsections listed in Appendix D: List of Additional Physical
Examination Subsections. Note that Vital Signs can be a top-level section or subsection
of Physical Exam.</p>

<p>The physical findings included in this section describe direct observations made by the
clinician divided by organ or body system and may be included under appropriate
subsections to Physical Exam. Systems are typically listed cephalic to caudal (i.e.,
starting with the head) and may include all body systems or only those pertinent to the
chief complaint. The head, eyes, ears, nose, throat, mouth, and teeth may be described
separately or combined into a single subsection labeled "HEENT." Other subsections
may include Skin, Neck, Lymph Nodes, Thorax (Chest) and Lungs, Cardiovascular,
Breasts, Abdomen, Pelvic, Genitourinary, Musculoskeletal, Extremities including
Peripheral Vascular, and Neurologic. A detailed Mental Status Examination may be
included when pertinent.</p>

<p>The Physical Examination section may contain multiple nested subsections: Vital Signs,
General Status, and those listed in Appendix D: List of Additional Physical
Examination Subsections.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Section</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "29545-1" <i>PHYSICAL FINDINGS</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC) (CONF-HP-85)</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Section</li>
<li>[CDT] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "29545-1" <i>PHYSICAL FINDINGS</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC) (CONF-HP-85)</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.2.10" assigningAuthorityName="CDT Physical Examination Section"/>
          <code code="29545-1" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="PHYSICAL FINDINGS"/>
          <title>PHYSICAL FINDINGS</title>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
