<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Problem Status Observation - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1.1</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1.1"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>Any problem or allergy observation may reference a problem status observation. The clinical status observation records information about the current status of the problem or allergy, for example, whether it is active, in remission, resolved, et cetera.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/ProblemStatusObservation.dita">CCD Problem Status Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.50</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>text</tt></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet <xref href="../../terminology/ProblemStatusValue.dita">ProblemStatusValue</xref> STATIC</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The 'text' elements shall contain a 'reference' element pointing to the narrative where the severity is recorded, rather than duplicate text to avoid ambiguity.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.text.reference.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Clinical Statement</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Observation</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/StatusObservation.dita">CCD Status Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.57</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/ProblemStatusObservation.dita">CCD Problem Status Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.50</tt>)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "OBS" (CONF-510)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-511)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "33999-4" <i>Status</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.6.1 LOINC STATIC) (CONF-512, CONF-513)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "completed"  (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus STATIC V3NE08) (CONF-514, CONF-515)</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet <xref href="../../terminology/ProblemStatusValue.dita">ProblemStatusValue</xref> STATIC</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>text</tt></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Target of an entryRelationship whose value for "entryRelationship / @typeCode" SHALL be "REFR" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC. (CONF-509)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: SHALL NOT contain any additional Observation attributes. (CONF-517)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: SHALL NOT contain any Observation participants. (CONF-518)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.participant-&gt;isEmpty()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: SHALL NOT be the source of any Observation relationships. (CONF-519)</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The 'text' elements shall contain a 'reference' element pointing to the narrative where the severity is recorded, rather than duplicate text to avoid ambiguity.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.text.reference.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.57" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Status Observation"/>
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.50" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Problem Status Observation"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1.1" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Problem Status Observation"/>
              <code code="33999-4" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1" codeSystemName="LOINC" displayName="Status"/>
              <text/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
              <value xsi:type="CE"/>
            </observation>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
