<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="cdatemplateconcept" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>UML 101</title>
 <shortdesc>Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a standardized general-purpose language. Object
  Management Group created and manages the standard.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>UML is used in generating artifacts of an object-oriented software-intensive system along with
   offering a way to view a system's architectural blueprint.</p>
  <p>UML is not a development method by itself. It was designed to be compatible with the leading
   object-oriented software development methods of its time. Since UML has evolved, some of these
   methods have been recast to take advantage of the new notations (for example OMT), and new
   methods have been created based on UML, such as IBM Rational Unified Process (RUP). Others
   include Abstraction Method and Dynamic Systems Development Method.</p>
  <p><b>Modeling</b></p>
  <p>It is important to distinguish between the UML model and the set of diagrams of a system. A
   diagram is a partial graphic representation of a system's model. The model also contains
   documentation that drives the model elements and diagrams UML Diagrams represent two different
   views of a system model.</p>
  <p><b>Static (structural) view:</b> emphasizes the static structure of the system using objects,
   attributes, operations and relationships. The structural view includes class diagrams and
   composite structure diagrams.</p>
  <p><b>Dynamic (behavioral) view:</b> emphasizes the dynamic behavior of the system by showing
   collaborations among objects and changes to the internal states of objects. This view includes
   sequence diagrams, activity diagrams and state machine diagrams.</p>
  <p> Models can be exchanged among UML tools by using the Extensive Markup Language interchange
   (XMI) format. There are different versions of the XMI standard and that there are different
   levels of compatibility between the various UML tools.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
