<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Medication Conditional Dose - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[SubstanceAdministration: templateId <tt>null</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>SubstanceAdministration</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="null"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../Medication.dita">HITSP Medication</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.8</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/dita/classes/ConditionalDose.dita">IHE Conditional Dose</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.10</tt>)</li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/dita/classes/ConditionalDose.dita">IHE Conditional Dose</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.10</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Clinical Statement</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Substance Administration</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/MedicationActivity.dita">CCD Medication Activity</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.24</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ihe.doc/dita/classes/Medication.dita">IHE Medication</xref> template (templateId: <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../Medication.dita">HITSP Medication</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.8</tt>)</li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "SBADM", where its data type is ActClass</li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt>, where its data type is x_DocumentSubstanceMood</li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>consumable</tt>, where its type is CDA Consumable</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..*] <tt>id</tt> (CONF-306)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt> (CONF-307)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/MedicationSeriesNumberObservation.dita">CCD Medication Series Number Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.46</tt>) (CONF-338, CONF-339)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/MedicationStatusObservation.dita">CCD Medication Status Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.47</tt>) (CONF-350)</li></ol></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [1..*] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="SUBJ" <i>SUBJ (has subject)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/PatientInstruction.dita">CCD Patient Instruction</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.49</tt>) (CONF-330, CONF-333)</li></ol></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..*] <tt>effectiveTime</tt> (CONF-308)<ul><li>Indicate Medication Stopped: Used to express a "hard stop," such as the last Sig sequence in a tapering dose, where the last sequence is 'then D/C' or where the therapy/drug is used to treat a condition and that treatment is for a fixed duration with a hard stop, such as antibiotic treatment, etc.</li><li>Administration Timing: defines a specific administration or use time. Can be a text string (Morning, Evening, Before Meals, 1 Hour After Meals, 3 Hours After Meals, Before Bed) or an exact time.</li><li>Frequency: defines how often the medication is to be administered as events per unit of time. Often expressed as the number of times per day (e.g., four times a day), but may also include event-related information (e.g., 1 hour before meals, in the morning, at bedtime). Complimentary to Interval, although equivalent expressions may have different implications (e.g., every 8 hours versus 3 times a day).</li><li>Interval: defines how the product is to be administered as an interval of time. For example, every 8 hours. Complimentary to Frequency, although equivalent expressions may have different implications (e.g., every 8 hours versus 3 times a day).</li><li>Duration: for non-instantaneous administrations, indicates the length of time the administration should be continued. For example, (infuse) over 30 minutes.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>maxDoseQuantity</tt> (CONF-312)</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [1..1] <tt>routeCode</tt> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.112 HL7 RouteOfAdministration DYNAMIC) (CONF-309, CONF-310)<ul><li>The route is a coded value, and indicates how the medication is received by the patient (by mouth, intravenously, topically, et cetera).</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>performer</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>contains CDA Performer2 (CONF-313)</li></ol><ul><li>Indicates the person administering a substance.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..1] <tt>entryRelationship</tt>, such that it<ol>
<li>has @typeCode="CAUS" <i>CAUS (is etiology for)</i></li>
<li>contains <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/ReactionObservation.dita">CCD Reaction Observation</xref> (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.54</tt>) (CONF-348, CONF-349)</li></ol></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>MAY</b> contain [0..*] <tt>approachSiteCode</tt><ul><li>The site where the medication is administered, usually used with IV or topical drugs.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [0..1] <tt>doseQuantity</tt><ul><li>The amount of the medication given. This should be in some known and measurable unit, such as grams, milligrams, et cetera. It may be measured in "administration" units (such as tablets or each), for medications where the strength is relevant. In this case, only the unit count is specified , no units are specified. It may be a range.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHOULD</b> contain [0..1] <tt>rateQuantity</tt><ul><li>The rate is a measurement of how fast the dose is given to the patient over time (e.g., .5 liter / 1 hr), and is often used with IV drugs.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Value for moodCode is "EVN" or "INT" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1001 ActMood STATIC (CONF-305)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.moodCode=vocab::x_DocumentSubstanceMood::EVN or self.moodCode=vocab::x_DocumentSubstanceMood::INT </codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHOULD</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one doseQuantity or rateQuantity. (CONF-311)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.doseQuantity.oclIsUndefined() or not self.rateQuantity.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: Has one or more associated consents, represented in the CCD Header as ClinicalDocument / authorization / consent. (CONF-314)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getClinicalDocument().authorization-&gt;exists(auth : cda::Authorization | 
   not auth.oclIsUndefined() and not auth.consent.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains one or more sources of information. (CONF-315)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.informant-&gt;isEmpty() 
or not self.getSection().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or not self.getClinicalDocument().informant-&gt;isEmpty()
or self.reference-&gt;exists(ref : cda::Reference | ref.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipExternalReference::XCRPT)
or (self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(rel : cda::EntryRelationship | 
   rel.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::REFR
   and rel.observation.code.code = '48766-0'))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains one or more precondition / Criterion, to indicate that the medication is administered only when the associated (coded or free text) criteria are met. (CONF-327)<ul><li>Indicates that the medication is administered only when the associated (coded or free text) criteria are met.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.precondition-&gt;exists(precondition : cda::Precondition | not precondition.criterion.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>MAY</b> satisfy: Contains one or more entryRelationship, where the value for @typeCode is "RSON" "Has reason" 2.16.840.1.113883.5.1002 ActRelationshipType STATIC. (CONF-328)<ul><li>The target of the relationship represents the indication for the activity.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.entryRelationship-&gt;exists(entryRel : cda::EntryRelationship | entryRel.typeCode = vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::RSON)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: entryRelationship / @typeCode="RSON" in a medication activity has a target of problem act, problem observation, or some other clinical statement. (CONF-329)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.getEntryRelationshipTargets(vocab::x_ActRelationshipEntryRelationship::RSON, cda::ClinicalStatement)-&gt;forAll(target : 
cda::ClinicalStatement | not target.oclIsUndefined() and 
  (target.oclIsKindOf(ccd::ProblemAct) or target.oclIsKindOf(ccd::ProblemObservation)))</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains exactly one consumable, the target of which is a Product template. (CONF-354)<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.consumable.manufacturedProduct.oclIsKindOf(ccd::Product)</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Contains the consumable name. If the name of the medication is unknown, the type, purpose or other description may be supplied.<ul><li>The name of the substance or product. This should be sufficient for a provider to identify the kind of medication. It may be a trade name or a generic name. This information is required in all medication entries. If the name of the medication is unknown, the type, purpose or other description may be supplied. The name should not include packaging, strength or dosing information. Note: Due to restrictions of the CDA schema, there is no way to explicitly link the name to the narrative text.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.consumable.manufacturedProduct.manufacturedLabeledDrug.name.oclIsUndefined()
   or not self.consumable.manufacturedProduct.manufacturedMaterial.name.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The time at which the medication was stopped is determined based on the content of the &lt;high&gt; element of the first &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element.</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The HL7 data type for PIVL_TS uses the institutionSpecified attribute to indicate whether it is the interval (time between dosing), or frequency (number of doses in a time period) that is important. If instititutionSpecified is not present or is set to false, then the time between dosing is important (every 8 hours). If true, then the frequency of administration is important (e.g., 3 times per day).</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The first &lt;effectiveTime&gt; SHALL use the IVL_TS data type unless for a single administration, in which case, it SHALL use the TS data type. (C83-[DE-8-CDA-3])</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Medications that are administered based on activities of daily living SHALL identify the events that trigger administration in the &lt;event&gt; element beneath the &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element. The &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element SHALL be of type EIVL_TS. (C83-[DE-8.03-CDA-1])</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Medications that are administered at a specified frequency SHALL record the expected interval between doses in the &lt;period&gt; element beneath an &lt;effectiveTime&gt; of type PIVL_TS. The &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element SHALL have an institutionSpecified attribute value of "true". (C83-[DE-8.04-CDA-1])</li>
<li>[HITSP] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: Medications that are administered at a specified interval SHALL record interval between doses in the &lt;period&gt; element beneath an &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element of type PIVL_TS. The &lt;effectiveTime&gt; element SHALL have an institutionSpecified attribute value of "false". (C83-[DE-8.05-CDA-1])</li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <substanceAdministration classCode="SBADM">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.24" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Medication Activity"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.7" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Medication"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.10" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Conditional Dose"/>
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.3.88.11.83.8"/>
              <templateId assigningAuthorityName="HITSP Medication Conditional Dose"/>
              <id root="f3dec327-ad9e-4bcf-8706-68a478ecd372"/>
              <statusCode/>
              <effectiveTime/>
              <routeCode codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.112" codeSystemName="HL7 RouteOfAdministration"/>
              <approachSiteCode/>
              <doseQuantity/>
              <rateQuantity/>
              <maxDoseQuantity/>
            </substanceAdministration>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
