<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgments</title>
	<body>
		<p>We acknowledge the foundational work on HL7 Version 3 and
			the Reference Information Model (RIM), the HL7 domain committees,
			especially Patient Care, and the work done on Clinical Document
			Architecture (CDA) itself.</p>
		<p>We also acknowledge the collaborative effort of the American
			Society for Standards and Materials (ASTM) and HL7, which produced
			the Continuity of Care Document (CCD). All these efforts were
			critical ingredients to the development of this Draft Standard for
			Trial Use (DSTU), and the degree to which the DSTU reflects these
			efforts will foster interoperability across the spectrum of health
			care.</p>
		<p>SNOMED CT&#174; is the registered trademark of the International Health
			Terminology Standard Development Organization (IHTSDO).</p>
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC&#174; (http://loinc.org). The LOINC table, LOINC codes, and
		LOINC panels and forms file are copyright &#169; 1995-2010, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical
		Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Committee and available at no cost under the
		license at http://loinc.org/terms-of-use .</p>
		
		<p>Certain materials contained in this Interoperability Specification
			are reproduced from Health Level Seven (HL7) HL7 Implementation
			Guide: CDA Release 2 – Continuity of Care Document (CCD), HL7
			Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: History and Physical (H&amp;P)
			Notes, HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Consult Notes, or
			HL7 Implementation Guide for CDA Release 2: Operative Notes with
			permission of Health Level Seven, Inc. No part of the material may be
			copied or reproduced in any form outside of the Interoperability
			Specification documents, including an electronic retrieval system, or
			made available on the Internet without the prior written permission
			of Health Level Seven, Inc. Copies of standards included in this
			Interoperability Specification may be purchased from the Health Level
			Seven, Inc. Material drawn from these standards is credited where used.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
