<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Scanning Device - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Author: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.2</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Author</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.2.20.2"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>Represents the scanning device and software used to produce the scanned content.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Author</li>
<li>Contains [1..1] <tt>time</tt><ul><li>Denotes the time at which the original content was scanned.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The time shall be equal to that of ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime. At a minimum, the time shall be precise to the day and shall include the time zone offset from GMT.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.time.value = self.getClinicalDocument().effectiveTime.value</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/id element shall be at least the root oid of the scanning device.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.assignedAuthor.id-&gt;forAll(ident : datatypes::II | not ident.root.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/assignedAuthoringDevice/code element is present. The values set here are taken from appropriate DICOM vocabulary. The value of code@codeSystem shall be set to "1.2.840.10008.2.16.4". The value of code@code shall be set to "CAPTURE" for PDF scanned content and "WSD" for plaintext. The value of code@displayName shall be set to "Image Capture" for PDF scanned content and "Workstation" for plaintext.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.code.codeSystem = '1.2.840.10008.2.16.4'
   and not self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.code.code.oclIsUndefined()
   and not self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.code.displayName.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/assignedAuthoringDevice/manufacturerModelName element is present.<ul><li>The mixed content shall contain string information that specifies the scanner product name and model number. From this information, features like bit depth and resolution can be inferred. In the case of virtually scanned documents (for example, print to PDF), the manufactureModelName referenced here refers to the makers of the technology that was used to produce the embedded content.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.manufacturerModelName.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/assignedAuthoringDevice/softwareName element is present.<ul><li>The mixed content shall contain string information that specifies the scanning software name and version. In the case of virtually scanned documents, the softwareName referenced here refers to the technology that was used to produce the embedded content.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.softwareName.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/representedOrganization/id element is present. The root attribute shall be set to the oid of the scanning facility.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.assignedAuthor.representedOrganization.id-&gt;forAll(ident : datatypes::II | not ident.root.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Author</li>
<li>[IHE] Contains [1..1] <tt>time</tt><ul><li>Denotes the time at which the original content was scanned.</li></ul></li>
<li>[CDA] Contains [1..1] <tt>assignedAuthor</tt>, where its type is CDA Assigned Author</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The time shall be equal to that of ClinicalDocument/effectiveTime. At a minimum, the time shall be precise to the day and shall include the time zone offset from GMT.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.time.value = self.getClinicalDocument().effectiveTime.value</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/id element shall be at least the root oid of the scanning device.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.assignedAuthor.id-&gt;forAll(ident : datatypes::II | not ident.root.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/assignedAuthoringDevice/code element is present. The values set here are taken from appropriate DICOM vocabulary. The value of code@codeSystem shall be set to "1.2.840.10008.2.16.4". The value of code@code shall be set to "CAPTURE" for PDF scanned content and "WSD" for plaintext. The value of code@displayName shall be set to "Image Capture" for PDF scanned content and "Workstation" for plaintext.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.code.codeSystem = '1.2.840.10008.2.16.4'
   and not self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.code.code.oclIsUndefined()
   and not self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.code.displayName.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/assignedAuthoringDevice/manufacturerModelName element is present.<ul><li>The mixed content shall contain string information that specifies the scanner product name and model number. From this information, features like bit depth and resolution can be inferred. In the case of virtually scanned documents (for example, print to PDF), the manufactureModelName referenced here refers to the makers of the technology that was used to produce the embedded content.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.manufacturerModelName.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/assignedAuthoringDevice/softwareName element is present.<ul><li>The mixed content shall contain string information that specifies the scanning software name and version. In the case of virtually scanned documents, the softwareName referenced here refers to the technology that was used to produce the embedded content.</li></ul><ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.assignedAuthor.assignedAuthoringDevice.softwareName.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The assignedAuthor/representedOrganization/id element is present. The root attribute shall be set to the oid of the scanning facility.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: self.assignedAuthor.representedOrganization.id-&gt;forAll(ident : datatypes::II | not ident.root.oclIsUndefined())</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
