<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="classId" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Severity - conformance rules</title>
<shortdesc id="shortdesc">[Observation: templateId <tt>1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1</tt>]</shortdesc>
<prolog id="prolog">
<metadata><category>Observation</category></metadata>
<resourceid id="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1"/>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="description">
<p>This specification models a severity observation as a separate observation from the condition. While this model is different from work presently underway by various organizations (i.e., SNOMED, HL7, TermInfo), it is not wholly incompatible with that work. In that work, qualifiers may be used to identify severity in the coded condition observation, and a separate severity observation is no longer necessary. The use of qualifiers is not precluded by this specification. However, to support semantic interoperability between EMR systems using different vocabularies, this specification does require that severity information also be provided in a separate observation. This ensures that all EMR systems have equal access to the information, regardless of the vocabularies they support.</p>
</section>
<ol id="conformance">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/SeverityObservation.dita">CCD Severity Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.55</tt>)</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>text</tt></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet <xref href="../../terminology/SeverityObservation.dita">SeverityObservation</xref> STATIC, where its data type is CD<ul><li>Value code representing high, moderate and low severity depending upon whether the severity is life threatening, presents noticeable adverse consequences, or is unlikely substantially effect the situation of the subject.</li></ul></li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The 'text' elements shall contain a 'reference' element pointing to the narrative where the severity is recorded, rather than duplicate text to avoid ambiguity.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.text.reference.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<ol id="aggregate">
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Clinical Statement</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to CDA Observation</li>
<li><b>SHALL</b> conform to <xref href="../../../../org.openhealthtools.mdht.uml.cda.ccd.doc/dita/classes/SeverityObservation.dita">CCD Severity Observation</xref> template (templateId: <tt>2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.55</tt>)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@classCode</tt> = "OBS" (CONF-289)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>@moodCode</tt> = "EVN" (CONF-290)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>code</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "SEV" <i>Severity observation</i> (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.4 ActCode STATIC V3NE08) (CONF-293, CONF-294)</li>
<li>[CCD] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>statusCode</tt><tt>/@code</tt> = "completed"  (CodeSystem: 2.16.840.1.113883.5.14 ActStatus STATIC V3NE08) (CONF-291, CONF-292)</li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>value</tt>, which <b>SHALL</b> be selected from ValueSet <xref href="../../terminology/SeverityObservation.dita">SeverityObservation</xref> STATIC, where its data type is CD<ul><li>Value code representing high, moderate and low severity depending upon whether the severity is life threatening, presents noticeable adverse consequences, or is unlikely substantially effect the situation of the subject.</li></ul></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> contain [1..1] <tt>text</tt></li>
<li>[IHE] <b>SHALL</b> satisfy: The 'text' elements shall contain a 'reference' element pointing to the narrative where the severity is recorded, rather than duplicate text to avoid ambiguity.<ul><li><codeblock>[OCL]: not self.text.reference.oclIsUndefined()</codeblock></li></ul></li>
</ol>
<codeblock id="example"><![CDATA[<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ClinicalDocument xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="urn:hl7-org:v3" xsi:schemaLocation="urn:hl7-org:v3 CDA.xsd">
  <component>
    <structuredBody>
      <component>
        <section>
          <entry>
            <observation classCode="OBS" moodCode="EVN">
              <templateId root="2.16.840.1.113883.10.20.1.55" assigningAuthorityName="CCD Severity Observation"/>
              <templateId root="1.3.6.1.4.1.19376.1.5.3.1.4.1" assigningAuthorityName="IHE Severity"/>
              <code code="SEV" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.4" codeSystemName="ActCode" displayName="Severity observation"/>
              <text/>
              <statusCode code="completed"/>
              <value xsi:type="CD"/>
            </observation>
          </entry>
        </section>
      </component>
    </structuredBody>
  </component>
</ClinicalDocument>]]></codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
